                                                          Master Data and Master
                                                                                          Chapter
                                                                                                    1
                                                              Data Management

                1.1 DRIVING THE NEED FOR MASTER DATA
                Our world is increasingly becoming more connected in many different
                ways, and as the degree of separation shrinks, the amount of informa-
                tion we have at our fingertips seems to have exploded. Agile organiza-
                tions that can adapt to the flood of largely redundant, yet sometimes
                conflicting pieces of data find that a combination of information shar-
                ing and operational collaboration is a differentiating factor for orga-
                nizational success. In particular, as the speed and efficiency of the
                underlying infrastructure improves, so does the organization’s ability
                to control and take advantage of information assets through infor-
                mation sharing and collaboration. In turn, as our partners exchange
                and share more information, connectivity is enhanced as well—it
                is not just systems that work better together, but the people manag-
                ing those systems forge better working relationships, leading to more
                effective management of the business and, ultimately, to competitive
                advantage.
                However, the more we share information, the more we realize that
                years of distribution of computing power and business applications
                across the different lines of business has led to “islands of informa-
                tion coherence.” Historically, business applications were designed to
                meet operational business needs for specific areas of focus; resources
                have been aligned for vertical success, and to that end, the de facto
                application architecture evolves organically to support the operations
                of each line of business, with potential repercussions at the enter-
                prise level. In general, application architectures designed to support
                operational processes within each business application area required
                their own information technology support and its accoutrements:

                                                                                                           1




0000856766.INDD 1                                                                                   8/14/2008 2:07:51 AM
        2 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management



                                         data definitions, data dictionaries, table structures, and application
                                         functionality, among others, all defined from the aspect of that
                                         business application.
                                         As a result, what we would like to refer to as the “enterprise” is often
                                         composed of many applications referring to multiple, sometimes dis-
                                         parate sets of data that are intended to represent the same, or similar,
                                         business concepts. Alternatively, the same or similar names are used to
                                         refer to concepts that are completely distinct. Administrative control of
                                         data still largely resides with the line-of-business management, and as
                                         long as the data are used only to fuel operations, there are probably no
                                         issues. However, the recent trends in information use tend toward proj-
                                         ects for consolidating and transforming data into information and then
                                         into actionable knowledge, and that requires collecting the instances
                                         of the data representing the critical business concepts from across
                                         business boundaries for the purpose of the common good. In other
                                         words, a transition toward applications intended to meet enterprise-
                                         level business needs must rely on a consistent view of data drawn from
                                         many data assets.
                                         To exploit that information for both operational and analytical proc-
                                         esses, however, an organization must be able to clearly define those
                                         business concepts, identify the different ways that data sets represent
                                         commonly understood business concepts, integrate those data into a
                                         consistent view, and then make the consistent view available across
                                         the organization. This need has introduced a significant opportunity
                                         for organizational information integration, management, and shar-
                                         ing, thereby creating a truly integrated enterprise. This is the essence of
                                         the master data management (MDM) challenge—envisioning how to
                                         organize an enterprise view of the organization’s key business infor-
                                         mation objects and to govern their quality, use, and synchronization
                                         to optimize the use of information to achieve the organization’s oper-
                                         ational and strategic business objectives.
                                         This chapter explores the history of enterprise master data, describes
                                         master data and master data management, and highlights the ben-
                                         efits of instituting a master data management program to support
                                         enterprise information management. The chapter also looks at the
                                         characteristics of master data and provides a high-level overview of
                                         what goes into an MDM program. We will also consider some of the
                                         organizational challenges of instituting an MDM program. Finally,
                                         the chapter provides an overview of the rest of the chapters of the
                                         book.




0000856766.INDD 2                                                                                                      8/14/2008 2:07:51 AM
                                                                                             1.2 Origins of master data 3



                1.2 ORIGINS OF MASTER DATA
                Originally, there was not a master data management challenge. In the
                early days of computing, the groups within an organization typically
                relied on a single computing resource that housed all the applica-
                tions and all associated data sets. Before the revolution of structured
                data architecture inspired relational databases, flat data files ruled the
                world. Of course, the absence of a concept of data normalization led to
                significant data redundancy, sometimes addressed via code tables, yet
                the business impacts related to data redundancy were largely ignored.
                But because applications were developed to automate the straightfor-
                ward processing that could be performed in batch, data duplication
                within one application or synchronization of data across different
                applications were essentially minor issues.
                The introduction of workgroup computing in the 1980s coupled with
                the explosion of desktop computing systems with access to their own
                applications ushered in an era of information management distribu-
                tion. At the same time, data architecture evolved to incorporate the
                relational view, leading to a reengineering of many existing appli-
                cations to exploit the sleekness and performance of new Relational
                Database Management Systems (RDBMS). Administrative control of
                a business application along with its required resources gave business
                managers a degree of freedom and agility. However, by virtue of that
                distribution, the managers within one line of business could dictate
                the processes and constraints associated with the development of their
                own vertical applications to run their own lines of business. The distri-
                bution of administrative control, of course, led to variance in the ways
                that commonly used business concepts and objects were defined.
                At the same time, the increase in both power and functionality at the
                desktop has engendered an even finer granularity of data distribu-
                tion. This allows greater freedom in describing and modeling business
                information. Whether it is in the mainframe files, the database server,
                or in the desktop spreadsheets, we start to see a confusing jumble of
                concepts, along with creative ways of implementing those concepts.
                This is the first driver for master data management—the ability to
                rationalize the definitions and meanings of commonly used business
                concepts when possible and the ability to differentiate different busi-
                ness terms when they do not refer to the same concept.
                Interestingly, since the mid-1990s, the pendulum has swung back
                to centralized computing. Organizational initiatives such as those




0000856766.INDD 3                                                                                                 8/14/2008 2:07:51 AM
        4 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management



                                         for deploying Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Customer
                                         Relationship Management (CRM), or Supply Chain Management
                                         (SCM) drive the development of technical infrastructure such as data
                                         warehouses and the institution of applications that help improve the
                                         business. These initiatives are launched with the intention of con-
                                         solidating the organization’s data into an information asset that can
                                         be mined for actionable knowledge to improve business produc-
                                         tivity. Although the centralization of information for analysis and
                                         reporting has great promise, it has introduced a different challenge:
                                         as data sets were integrated and transformed for analysis and report-
                                         ing, cleansing and corrections applied at the warehouse imply that
                                         the analysis and reports may no longer be synchronized with the
                                         data at their corresponding original sources. The differences in these
                                         reports alerted business users to qualifying the trustworthiness of
                                         the data, leading to suspicion in the correctness of the centralized
                                         system as opposed to the reporting systems on which the managers
                                         had always relied. This suggests more drivers for master data man-
                                         agement—ensuring the quality of data that is used for analytics and
                                         maintaining consistency of the data across analytical systems as well
                                         as operational systems.


                                         1.2.1 Example: Customer Data
                                         Every company deals with customers, and within the company, each
                                         customer may be touched by many different business operations
                                         related to the business life cycle: marketing, sales, fulfillment, sup-
                                         port, maintenance, customer satisfaction, billing, or service. In each
                                         of these contexts, the customer may be cast in different roles, with
                                         different aspects of the customer’s attributes being particularly rel-
                                         evant. Consequently, every business application may value some
                                         attributes over others in relation to the business context. The tele-
                                         marketer may insist on accuracy of the telephone number to avoid
                                         calling the same prospect twice; the sales representative is concerned
                                         about duplication; the shipping department craves high-quality
                                         location information.
                                         Within each business application, there may be a customer database,
                                         each with its own critical data attributes, and all of these records may
                                         be subjected to aggregation when consolidated into a data warehouse.
                                         But you clearly want to ensure that your business processes don’t fail
                                         because the customer appears multiple times in different data sets.
                                         In addition, you want to be confident that the customer’s activities
                                         are accurately portrayed in management reports.




0000856766.INDD 4                                                                                                   8/14/2008 2:07:51 AM
                                                                                                                   1.3 What is master data? 5




                    Sales
                                                                              CUSTOMER
                                                                              FirstName              VARCHAR(14)
                                                                              MiddleName             VARCHAR(14)
                                                                              LastName               VARCHAR(30)
                                                                              TelNum                 NUMERIC(10)


                                                                              CUST
                                                                              First                  VARCHAR(15)
                                                                              Middle                 VARCHAR(15)
                Finance                                                       Last                   VARCHAR(40)
                                                                              Address1               VARCHAR(45)
                                                                              Address2               VARCHAR(45)
                                                                              City                   VARCHAR(30)
                                                                              State                  CHAR(2)
                                                                              ZIP                    CHAR(9)


                ■ FIGURE 1.1 Different applications may represent similar business concepts in different ways.



                This example demonstrates a critical aspect of the apparent distribu-
                tion of information: data sets maintain representations of business
                concepts (such as “customers” or “products”) in different ways, even
                if they refer to the same real-world entities. And although different
                business applications record transactions or analysis regarding enti-
                ties and their activities, for integration purposes it is desirable for all
                the business applications to agree on what those entities are, what the
                activities are, and whether the business terms used to describe these
                entities and activities truly refer to the same real-world ideas. We can
                summarize a number of objectives:

                ■ When it can be determined that the entities referred to within the data
                  sets refer to the same business concepts, integrate the multiple variations
                  of those business entities into a unified view of uniquely identifiable
                  data objects.
                ■ Qualify the distinction between sets of data entities when it can be

                  determined that they do not refer to the same business concepts.
                ■ Provide a set of processes that enable enterprise applications to share

                  that unified view of the business objects within the enterprise.


                1.3 WHAT IS MASTER DATA?
                In any organization, there are going to be commonly recognized
                concepts that are the focus of business processes, such as customers,




0000856766.INDD 5                                                                                                                     8/14/2008 2:07:51 AM
        6 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management



                                         products, suppliers, vendors, employees, finances, and policies. We
                                         have established that as line-of-business silos rely on workgroup appli-
                                         cation frameworks, disparity has crept into organizational systems,
                                         introducing duplication and distribution of variant representations
                                         of the same “things.” There has been a growing desire for enterprise
                                         integration projects, such as those driven by expectations for a unified
                                         view of data as expressed by systems designed for customer relation-
                                         ship management (CRM), using a cleansed “product master file” and
                                         providing that all-elusive 360° view of the customer or other quali-
                                         fied enterprise reference repositories. In each of these instances, the
                                         underlying objective is to create a synchronized, consistent view of an
                                         organization’s core business entities.
                                         So far we have used terms such as “critical business objects,” “business
                                         concepts,” or “business entities” when referring to the common data
                                         themes that exist across any business, and the underlying information
                                         objects represent the organization’s master data. But what characteristics
                                         define master data? Master data objects are those core business objects
                                         used in the different applications across the organization, along with
                                         their associated metadata, attributes, definitions, roles, connections, and
                                         taxonomies. Master data objects are those key “things” that matter the
                                         most—the things that are logged in our transaction systems, measured
                                         and reported on in our reporting systems, and analyzed in our analytical
                                         systems. Common examples of master data include the following:

                                            ■ Customers
                                            ■ Employees
                                            ■ Vendors

                                            ■ Suppliers

                                            ■ Parts

                                            ■ Products

                                            ■ Locations

                                            ■ Contact mechanisms

                                            ■ Profiles

                                            ■ Accounting items

                                            ■ Contracts

                                            ■ Policies


                                         Within a master data object category there may be implicit or explicit
                                         hierarchical relationships. For example, there may be individual cus-
                                         tomer contacts within each client organization, or a product may be
                                         a shrink-wrapped collection of smaller product items. Classifications
                                         and reference tables are likely to be included as well.




0000856766.INDD 6                                                                                                      8/14/2008 2:07:51 AM
                                                                                                1.3 What is master data? 7



                Consider the following transaction: “David Loshin purchased seat 15B
                on flight 238 from Baltimore (BWI) to San Francisco (SFO) on July
                20, 2008.” Some of the master data elements in this example and their
                types are shown in Table 1.1.
                In fact, reviewing the master data objects presented in Table 1.1 poses
                some new questions—for example, we have a concept of a product
                (“seat 15B”) that in its own right has a number of attributes associ-
                ated with it:

                      ■   It is nonrefundable.
                      ■ Standby is permitted, but the customer must pay the price difference.

                      ■ The fare is subject to change until the ticket is purchased.
                      ■ Limited seating, advance purchase, and other conditions may apply.


                Next, consider the difference between the seat and the flight. The flight
                is essentially a container for seats, and the flight also has attributes
                associated with it, such as a departure gate, an arrival gate, an on-time
                departure percentage, and an on-time arrival percentage.
                Also, recognize that we are using the name “Baltimore” and “BWI” inter-
                changeably, with “Baltimore” referring to the airport closest to and serv-
                ing the location called Baltimore. In other instances, though, “Baltimore”
                refers to a different concept (such as a geopolitical region located in the
                state of Maryland) and may (or may not) include the more specific loca-
                tion referred to as “BWI” (which can be determined via a lookup table
                to indicate Baltimore Washington International Airport). Clearly, the
                more one drills down into the specific meanings or what we will call
                “semantics” of data values—data elements, records representing data


                    Table 1.1    Master Data Elements
                    Master Data Object                    Value
                    Customer                              David Loshin
                    Product                               Seat 15B

                    Product container                     Flight 238

                    Location                              BWI

                    Location                              SFO
                    Location                              Baltimore

                    Location                              San Francisco




0000856766.INDD 7                                                                                                  8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
        8 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management



                                         entities, data sets that are collections of data entity representations, and
                                         so on—the more data about the data (or “metadata”) we discover.
                                         Master data tend to exist in more than one business area within the
                                         organization, so the same customer may show up in the sales system
                                         as well as the billing system. Master data objects are used within trans-
                                         actions, but the underlying object sets tend to be static in compari-
                                         son to transaction systems and do not change as frequently. Master
                                         data objects may be classified within a hierarchy. For example, we may
                                         have a master data category of “party,” which in turn comprises “indi-
                                         viduals” or “organizations.” Those parties may also be classified based
                                         on their roles, such as “prospect,” “customer,” “supplier,” “vendor,” or
                                         “employee.” Although we may see one natural hierarchy across one
                                         dimension, the nested ways in which we describe, characterize, and
                                         classify business concepts (commonly referred to as “taxonomies”)
                                         may actually cross multiple hierarchies in different ways. For exam-
                                         ple, when we use the concept of a “party,” we may simultaneously be
                                         referring to an individual, a customer, and an employee. Alternatively,
                                         a “customer” may be either an individual party or an organization.
                                         In turn, the same master data categories and their related taxonomies are
                                         used for analysis and reporting. For example, the headers in a monthly
                                         sales report may be derived from the master data categories (e.g., sales by
                                         customer by region by time period). Enabling the transactional systems to
                                         refer to the same data objects as the subsequent reporting systems ensures
                                         that the analysis reports are consistent with the transaction systems.
                                         A master data system comprising a master data set is a (potentially
                                         virtual) registry or index of uniquely identified entities with their criti-
                                         cal data attributes synchronized from the contributing original data
                                         sources and made available for enterprise use. With the proper gover-
                                         nance and oversight, the data in the master data system (or repository,
                                         or registry) can be qualified as a unified and coherent data asset that
                                         all applications can rely on for consistent, high-quality information.



                                         1.4 WHAT IS MASTER DATA MANAGEMENT?
                                         Master data management is a collection of best data management
                                         practices that orchestrate key stakeholders, participants, and business
                                         clients in incorporating the business applications, information man-
                                         agement methods, and data management tools to implement the poli-
                                         cies, procedures, services, and infrastructure to support the capture,
                                         integration, and subsequent shared use of accurate, timely, consistent,
                                         and complete master data.




0000856766.INDD 8                                                                                                       8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
                                                                                                      1.4 What is master data management? 9



                    Master Data Management (MDM) incorporates business
                    applications, information management methods, and data
                    management tools to implement the policies, procedures,
                    and infrastructures that support the capture, integration, and
                    subsequent shared use of accurate, timely, consistent,
                    and complete master data.


                         Governance                    Action                    Quality

                           Policies                     Capture                   Accuracy
                         Procedures                   Integration                Timeliness
                        Infrastructure                  Sharing                 Completeness


                ■ FIGURE 1.2 The essentials of MDM.


                In other words, an MDM program is intended to support an organi-
                zation’s business needs by providing access to consistent views of the
                uniquely identifiable master data entities across the operational applica-
                tion infrastructure. Master data management governs the methods, tools,
                information, and services for doing the items listed in the sidebar.


                    USING MDM TO SUPPORT BUSINESS NEEDS

                    ■   Assess the use of commonly used information objects, collections
                        of valid data values, and explicit and implicit business rules in the range
                        of applications across the enterprise
                    ■ Identify core information objects relevant to business success that
                      are used in different application data sets that would benefit from
                      centralization
                    ■ Instantiate a standardized model for integrating and managing key infor-
                      mation objects
                    ■   Manage collected and discovered metadata as an accessible, browsable
                        resource, and use the metadata to facilitate consolidation
                    ■   Collect data from candidate data sources, evaluate how different data
                        instances refer to the same real-world entities, and create a unique, con-
                        solidated view of each one
                    ■   Provide methods for transparent access to the unified view of real-
                        world data objects for both existing and newly developed business
                        applications
                    ■   Institute the proper data stewardship and management policies and
                        procedures at corporate and line-of-business levels to ensure a high-
                        quality master data asset




0000856766.INDD 9                                                                                                                   8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
      10 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management



                                        1.5 BENEFITS OF MASTER DATA MANAGEMENT
                                        Understanding the scale and scope of justifying, designing, planning,
                                        implementing, and maintaining an MDM program is itself a signifi-
                                        cant investment. Seeking executive-level championship for the tasks
                                        associated with deploying an MDM solution suggests a need for jus-
                                        tifying the business value of master data management. However, rec-
                                        ognize that regardless of how good the data management practices
                                        are that support MDM, master data integration and master data man-
                                        agement are not truly the end objectives; rather they are the means
                                        by which other strategic and operational objectives are successfully
                                        accomplished, such as those promised by customer relationship man-
                                        agement systems, product information management systems, enter-
                                        prise resource planning systems, and the like. Although the principles
                                        that drive and support MDM reflect sound data management prac-
                                        tices, it would be unusual (although not unheard of) that senior man-
                                        agement would embrace and fund the MDM effort solely for the sake
                                        of establishing good practices. That being said, the business justifica-
                                        tion for MDM should be coupled with programs that will benefit from
                                        the availability of the unified view of master data. Providing a master
                                        unified view of key business information objects enables significant
                                        benefits in business productivity improvement, risk management, and
                                        cost reduction. More concretely, master data management can be
                                        justified in support of a business initiative that relies on any of the
                                        following MDM benefits:

                                        Comprehensive customer knowledge. Organically developed application
                                          infrastructures often support the same type of customer data function-
                                          ality in different ways. For example, a bank may have multiple cus-
                                          tomer banking interfaces: branch banking, automatic teller machines,
                                          bank by mail, Internet banking, telephone transactions, and even
                                          text-messaging. Customer records may be created, updated, or retired
                                          through any of these applications, but in an uncoordinated environ-
                                          ment, there would be no way to know the number of distinct cus-
                                          tomers, how they like to bank, or how many different ways they have
                                          tried to execute transactions. A master data repository for customer
                                          data provides the single source for consolidating all customer activ-
                                          ity, which can then be used to support both operational and analytical
                                          applications in a consistent manner.
                                        Improved customer service. A unified view of master data objects enables
                                          improvements in meeting customer expectations with respect to avail-
                                          ability, accuracy, and responsiveness to their orders, inquiries, as well




0000856766.INDD 10                                                                                                    8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
                                                                                       1.5 Benefits of master data management 11


                     as providing transparency and governance in managing and protecting
                     customer data.
                Consistent reporting. Absent governance, duplication, and complex
                  transformations applied differently at different places in the informa-
                  tion processing flow introduce differences into the resulting generated
                  reports. Reliance on end-user applications to digest intermittent system
                  data extracts leads to questions regarding inconsistency from one report
                  to another. Reliance on the reports generated from governed processes
                  using master data reduces the inconsistencies experienced.
                Improved competitiveness. The need to react to new business opportuni-
                  ties rapidly with limited resources challenges organizations to produce
                  new business capabilities faster. MDM reduces the complexity of inte-
                  grating new data and systems into the organization, thereby increasing
                  agility and improving competitiveness.
                Improved risk management. At a low degree of granularity, the more
                  data points that applications must touch, the greater the potential for
                  duplication, inconsistencies, or missing information to skew calculated
                  risk assessment, either at the customer level or across lines of business.
                  More trustworthy and consistent financial information improves the
                  business’s ability to manage enterprise risk.
                Improved operational efficiency and reduced costs. Replication of the same
                  data often is linked to replication of activities associated with managing
                  those data sets, ranging from typical data management routines (backups,
                  maintenance), to licensing costs for infrastructure (such as RDBMS or
                  Extract/Transform/Load (ETL) product license and maintenance costs),
                  to specialized applicationware or services (such as data enhancement
                  or geo/demographic appends). Formulating a unified view of the data
                  enables the organization to reduce operating costs and tasks.
                Improved decision making. Inconsistency across business intelligence
                  activities often occur because of replication or duplication in the
                  underlying data used to drive the decision-making process. Questions
                  regarding the consistency of reports can stymie management deci-
                  sion making, leading to missed business opportunities. The informa-
                  tion consistency provided by MDM across applications reduces data
                  variability, which in turn minimizes organizational data mistrust and
                  allows for clearer (and faster) business decisions.
                Better spend analysis and planning. Master data associated with product,
                   supplier, and vendor data improve the ability to aggregate purchasing
                   activities, coordinate competitive sourcing, be more predictable about
                   future spend, and generally improve vendor and supplier management.




0000856766.INDD 11                                                                                                     8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
      12 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management


                                        Regulatory compliance. As one of the major enterprise areas of risk,
                                          compliance drives the need for quality data and data governance, and
                                          MDM addresses both of these needs. Information auditing is simpli-
                                          fied across a consistent master view of enterprise data, enabling more
                                          effective information controls that facilitate compliance with regula-
                                          tions such as Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as other more industry-focused
                                          regulations such as these that apply in the United States: 21 CFR Part
                                          11, the U.S. Patriot Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Basel II, antikickback statutes,
                                          and Graham-Leach-Bliley, among others.
                                        Increased information quality. Collecting metadata made up of stan-
                                           dardized models, value domains, and business rules enables organiza-
                                           tions to more effectively monitor conformance to information quality
                                           expectations across vertical applications, which reduces information
                                           scrap and rework.
                                        Quicker results. A standardized view of the information asset reduces the
                                          delays associated with extraction and transformation of data, speeding
                                          the implementation of application migrations, modernization proj-
                                          ects, and data warehouse/data mart construction.
                                        Improved business productivity. Master data help organizations understand
                                          how the same data objects are represented, manipulated, or exchanged
                                          across applications within the enterprise and how those objects relate to
                                          business process workflows. This understanding gives enterprise archi-
                                          tects the opportunity to explore how effective the organization is in
                                          automating its business processes by exploiting the information asset.
                                        Simplified application development. The consolidation activities of
                                           MDM are not limited to the data; when the multiple master data
                                           objects are consolidated into a master repository, there is a corre-
                                           sponding opportunity to consolidate the application functionality
                                           associated with the data life cycle. For example, there may be many
                                           applications that create new product entries into various product
                                           databases. Consolidating those product systems into a single resource
                                           allows us to provide a single functional service for the creation of a
                                           new product entry to which the different applications can subscribe.
                                           Introducing a technical service layer for data life cycle functionality
                                           provides the type of abstraction necessary for deploying a service-
                                           oriented architecture (SOA).


                                        1.6 ALPHABET SOUP: WHAT ABOUT
                                            CRM/SCM/ERP/BI (AND OTHERS)?
                                        Since the mid-1990s, data quality and data integration tools have
                                        matured in concert with a recognized desire on behalf of senior




0000856766.INDD 12                                                                                                       8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
                                                                 1.6 Alphabet soup: What about CRM/SCM/ERP/BI (and others)? 13



                managers to aggregate and consolidate replicated or duplicated copies
                of common or shared data objects that are peppered across disparate
                or distributed enterprise systems. In fact, MDM initiatives are largely
                aligned with the need to establish governance and quality across
                enterprise systems. So what differentiates today’s master data manage-
                ment initiatives from previous attempts at enterprise data consolida-
                tion? One might question whether there is any significant difference
                at all, which suggests that MDM may be destined for the same fate the
                earlier projects faced.
                On the surface, MDM appears to be yet another attempt at consoli-
                dating data into a single “system of record” or “single version of the
                truth.” But consider customer data integration, product data integra-
                tion, and enterprise dimension analysis. These ideas have been intro-
                duced within the context of data warehousing, business intelligence,
                sales force automation, customer relationship management, and
                so on. Yet, to some extent, the promise of many technical applica-
                tions (such as CRM) has not been realized, and over time there has
                been growing skepticism as to their success. For example, many have
                been critical of the inability to effectively exploit a CRM system for its
                intended benefits. The reasons for this may not lie in the technologies
                per se but perhaps are influenced by four factors:

                1. Despite the recognition of their expected business value, to some extent
                   many of the aspects of these earlier projects were technology driven,
                   and the technical challenges often eclipsed the original business need,
                   creating an environment that was information technology centric.
                   IT-driven projects had characteristics that suggest impending doom:
                   large budgets, little oversight, long schedules, and few early business
                   deliverables.
                2. MDM’s focus is not necessarily to create yet another silo consisting of
                   copies of enterprise data (which would then itself be subject to incon-
                   sistency) but rather to integrate methods for managed access to a con-
                   sistent, unified view of enterprise data objects.
                3. These systems are seen as independent applications that address a par-
                   ticular stand-alone solution, with limited ability to embed the tech-
                   nologies within a set of business processes guided by policies for data
                   governance, data quality, and information sharing.
                4. An analytical application’s results are only as good as the organiza-
                   tion’s ability both to take action on discovered knowledge and to mea-
                   sure performance improvements attributable to those decisions. Most
                   of these early projects did not properly prepare the organization along
                   these lines.




0000856766.INDD 13                                                                                                   8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
      14 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management



                                        These kinds of projects focus on integrating data from multiple sources
                                        into a single core repository, and each reflects some aspects of a mas-
                                        ter data management project. However, what differentiates MDM from
                                        previous enterprise integration efforts is that rather than having pri-
                                        marily a technology focus, MDM initiatives typically have a business
                                        focus, concentrating on the process of entity identification and valida-
                                        tion with the business clients. Whereas MDM uses tools and technol-
                                        ogy, the combination of that technology with sound business and data
                                        management practices is what provides hope for a resounding success.
                                        The intention of an MDM program is to create a single repository of
                                        high-quality master data that subsequently feeds applications across
                                        the organization with a synchronized, consistent view of enterprise
                                        data. The most critical aspects of a successful MDM solution require
                                        high-quality integration of master data instances from across the enter-
                                        prise, and this relies heavily on the following:

                                           ■ Inventory of data objects used throughout the enterprise
                                           ■ Methods for identification of key data objects that are candidates
                                             for integration into a master data asset
                                           ■ Resolution of the definitions, usage scenarios and intentions, and

                                             the meanings and semantics for these entities, as well as hierarchies
                                             and object relationships
                                           ■ The ability to seamlessly facilitate standardized information

                                             extraction, sharing, and delivery
                                           ■ A quality-directed migration process coupled with data survivor-

                                             ship rules for consolidating the “best records” for the master
                                             data asset
                                           ■ An approach to transparently expose services to enterprise clients

                                             for accessing and managing the master data asset
                                           ■ A governance framework for managing continued integration of

                                             enterprise data into the master data environment

                                        Not surprisingly, the technical aspects of the tasks enumerated here depend
                                        on the traditional data quality, data integration, and data management
                                        tools and methods that most likely are already in place: database manage-
                                        ment; data profiling for discovery and analysis; parsing; standardization for
                                        data cleansing; duplicate analysis/householding and matching for identity
                                        resolution; data integration for information sharing; and data governance,
                                        stewardship, and standards oversight to ensure ongoing consistency.
                                        In fact, many organizations that are implementing MDM programs
                                        have solutions that have evolved out of these traditional techniques.




0000856766.INDD 14                                                                                                      8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
                                                                   1.7 Organizational challenges and master data management 15



                It is common for master data integration programs to have evolved
                from customer data quality, product data quality, data assessment and
                validation, and data integration activities. Alternatively, although tar-
                geted solutions have been developed to support MDM functionality,
                they are often triggered by the introduction of data quality activities
                to support the technical infrastructure acquired for a specific purpose
                (e.g., enterprise resource planning or customer relationship manage-
                ment). Lastly, those successful evolutions occur when the ownership
                of the business benefits of the traditional approaches is transferred to
                the business side of the company, which emerges as data governance is
                introduced across the information sharing and collaboration context.


                1.7 ORGANIZATIONAL CHALLENGES AND MASTER
                    DATA MANAGEMENT
                Numerous technologies have, in the past, been expected to address
                parts of this problem, providing customer master tables, industry-
                specific consolidated product management systems, and the like. But
                these applications have been criticized (perhaps unfairly) as a result
                of the organizational management approach to their implementation:
                largely IT-driven, presumed to be usable out of the box, lack of enter-
                prise integration, and limited business acceptance. Resolving the issues
                pointed out by that criticism is what defines some of the considerations
                for implementing a successful master data management program:

                     ■ Effective technical infrastructure for collaboration
                     ■ Organizational preparedness

                     ■ “Round-trip” enterprise acceptance and integration

                     ■ Measurably high data quality

                     ■ Overseeing these (and other) processes via policies and procedures

                       for data governance

                That last point is one of the more important ones: what has emerged
                as a critical factor for success in growing a master data management
                program is establishing enterprise-wide data governance. It is impor-
                tant to understand how the migration of oversight and governance
                responsibilities from the lines of business to a centrally managed cen-
                ter of accountability will have impacts on the organization. Realize
                that years of distributing business applications into vertical lines of
                business has led to discrete islands of information, and the verti-
                cal alignment of IT and data management structures associated with
                those lines of business have erected barriers to what might be called




0000856766.INDD 15                                                                                                   8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
      16 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management



                                        “horizontal collaboration.” This vertical alignment makes it difficult
                                        to resolve the differences in roles and responsibilities in relation to the
                                        isolated data sets as they are integrated into a master view. In addition,
                                        the politics of information ownership and management have created
                                        artificial fiefdoms overseen by individuals for whom centralization
                                        holds no incentive. Lastly, consolidating master data into a centrally
                                        managed data asset transfers the responsibility and accountability for
                                        information management from the lines of business to the organi-
                                        zation. Therefore, some of the greatest challenges to success are not
                                        technical—they are organizational. It is largely because of these issues
                                        that MDM should be considered as a “program” and not as a project
                                        or an application. For example, these directives offer good suggestions
                                        for distinguishing a successful MDM program from one destined for
                                        failure.

                                        Organizational preparedness. Anticipate that a rapid transition from a
                                          loosely coupled confederation of vertical silos to a more tightly cou-
                                          pled collaborative framework will ruffle a number of feathers. Assess
                                          the kinds of training sessions and individual incentives that must be
                                          established in order to create a smooth transition. These issues will be
                                          addressed in greater detail in Chapter 2.
                                        Data governance. As management responsibility and accountability tran-
                                          sition to the enterprise team, it is important to define the policies and
                                          procedures governing the oversight of master data. By distributing
                                          these policies and seeking proactive comments from across the differ-
                                          ent application teams, you have an opportunity to create the steward-
                                          ship framework through consensus while preparing the organization
                                          for the transition. A comprehensive look at data governance is pro-
                                          vided in Chapter 4.
                                        Metadata management. All aspects of determining need, planning, migra-
                                          tion strategy, and future state require a clarified view of the informa-
                                          tion about the data that is used within the organization—its metadata.
                                          The metadata associated with an enterprise master data set do more
                                          than just describe the size and types of each data element; rather these
                                          metadata include business definitions, valid value sets, accompany-
                                          ing business rules, and usage mappings, among other relevant data.
                                          A metadata registry provides a control mechanism or perhaps even
                                          a “clearing house” for unifying a master data view when possible, as
                                          well as helping to determine when that unification is not possible. The
                                          criticality of metadata to support MDM is discussed at great length in
                                          Chapter 6.




0000856766.INDD 16                                                                                                    8/14/2008 2:07:52 AM
                                                                                               1.8 MDM and data quality 17


                Technology integration. As is often the case, new technologies that are
                   dependent on application packages are like the tail wagging the dog.
                   Recognize the need to integrate technology to support the process
                   instead of developing the process around the technology. Technology
                   for data quality and data integration is covered in Chapters 5 and 10,
                   with a focus on MDM solution architectures in Chapter 9.
                Anticipating change. As with any paradigm shift, proper preparation and
                  organization will subtly introduce change to the way that people think
                  and act. The nature of a master data management program involves
                  integrating data for competitive advantage, and this provides an oppor-
                  tunity for business managers to encourage individuals to begin to
                  understand the differences between existing data replicas and a master
                  data environment and to explore new ways to improve business pro-
                  ductivity through the use of a master data asset.


                1.8 MDM AND DATA QUALITY
                Master data management success depends on high-quality data. Data
                quality can be improved through a master data management program.
                This codependence drives a large part of the activities that under-
                lie the ability for the business to make use of a master data object
                framework:

                Assessment. The ability to identify core data objects that should be incor-
                   porated into a master data repository depends on a structured process
                   of assessment that relies on automated tools for analysis. This analysis
                   comprises tools and techniques for empirically identifying candidate
                   master data sets, primary keys, foreign keys, implicit relational struc-
                   ture, and embedded business rules before any data integration can
                   begin.
                Integration. The nature of variation associated with master data (per-
                   son names, addresses, telephone numbers, product descriptions, etc.)
                   demands that tools be used to help resolve the variation in representa-
                   tion of specific entities from disparate data sources. Standardization,
                   parsing, and matching/linkage techniques have been available as part
                   of any data cleansing tool kit, and the value of using those technologies
                   to support new methods is abundantly clear.
                Assurance. MDM is not going to be a case of “build it and they will come.”
                   Organizational stakeholders will participate in the integration and
                   consolidation process only as long as they are able to benefit from the
                   process, implying the need for a high degree of confidence in the high




0000856766.INDD 17                                                                                                8/14/2008 2:07:53 AM
      18 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management


                                            quality of master data moving forward. Auditing and monitoring com-
                                            pliance with defined data quality expectations coupled with effective
                                            issue response and tracking, along with strong data stewardship within
                                            a consensus-based governance model, will ensure ongoing compliance
                                            with application quality objectives.

                                        Without a focus on managing the quality of master data, we run a
                                        risk of degenerating from an enterprise information management pro-
                                        gram to just another unsynchronized data silo. Data quality is critical
                                        to MDM success, and we will see how this theme penetrates almost all
                                        aspects of the MDM program.


                                        1.9 TECHNOLOGY AND MASTER DATA
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                        Although MDM should not be considered a technology project, it
                                        is clear that developing an MDM program cannot be done without
                                        leveraging tools and technology. The technical aspects of master data
                                        management rely on tools supporting data profiling, complex data
                                        analysis, metadata management, data modeling, data integration,
                                        parsing, standardization, record linkage and matching, cleansing,
                                        services-oriented architecture, access control, data federation, and data
                                        delivery, among others. However, this book is not about the tools
                                        but rather how those tools are employed to achieve the consolidated
                                        view of uniquely identifiable master data objects to support business
                                        strategy and objectives. Therefore, the descriptions of the tools and
                                        technology are presented in support of the MDM processes.



                                        1.10 OVERVIEW OF THE BOOK
                                        The objective of this book is to raise awareness among those tasked
                                        with developing MDM solutions of both the organizational and tech-
                                        nical challenges and to help them develop a road map for success. To
                                        that end, the book concentrates on identifying the issues of critical
                                        importance, raises some of the questions that need to be asked and
                                        answered, and provides guidance on how to jumpstart that process
                                        within your organization. The book has 13 chapters.

                                        ■   Chapter 1, Master Data and Master Data Management, introduces the
                                            historical issues that have created the need for master data management,
                                            describes both “master data” and “master data management,” begins




0000856766.INDD 18                                                                                                     8/14/2008 2:07:53 AM
                                                                                                  1.10 Overview of the book 19


                     to explore what goes into an MDM program, and reviews the business
                     value of instituting an MDM program, along with this overview of the
                     rest of the book.
                ■    Chapter 2, Coordination: Stakeholders, Requirements, and Planning,
                     describes who the MDM stakeholders are, why they are relevant to the
                     success of an MDM program, and what their expected participation
                     should be over the course of the program’s development.
                ■    Every organization exhibits different levels of maturity when it comes to
                     sharing consolidated information, and Chapter 3, MDM Components
                     and the Maturity Model, provides a capability model against which an
                     organization’s maturity can be measured. By assessing the organization’s
                     current state, considering the level of maturity necessary to achieve the
                     organization’s objectives, and determining where the organization
                     needs to be, one can assemble an implementation road map that
                     enables action.
                ■    Master data management is an enterprise initiative, and that means
                     an enterprise data governance program must be in place to oversee
                     it. Governance is a critical issue for deploying MDM. In Chapter 4,
                     Data Governance for Master Data Management, we discuss how
                     business policies are composed of information directives, and how data
                     rules contribute to conformance to those information directives. We’ll
                     look at what data governance is, introduce data stewardship roles and
                     responsibilities, and propose a collaborative enterprise data governance
                     framework for data sharing.
                ■    No book on MDM would be complete without a discussion of the value
                     of data quality, and Chapter 5, Data Quality and MDM, examines the
                     historical evolution of MDM from data quality to its reliance on high-
                     quality information. This chapter provides a high-level view of the data
                     quality components and methods that are used for the purposes of
                     master data integration.
                ■    The key to information sharing through an MDM repository is a solid
                     set of data standards for defining and managing enterprise data and a
                     comprehensive business metadata management scheme for controlling
                     the use of enterprise data. Chapter 6, Metadata Management for MDM,
                     discusses data standards and metadata management and explores how
                     master metadata is managed.
                ■    As part of the process, it is necessary to identify the master data object
                     types and determine the data assets that make up those object types
                     across the enterprise. In Chapter 7, Identifying Master Metadata and
                     Master Data, we look at the process of identifying and finding the data




0000856766.INDD 19                                                                                                   8/14/2008 2:07:53 AM
      20 CHAPTER 1 Master Data and Master Data Management


                                            sets that are candidates as sources for master data and how to qualify
                                            them in terms of usability.
                                        ■   A core issue for MDM is creating the consolidation models to collect
                                            and aggregate master data. Chapter 8, Data Modeling for MDM, is
                                            where we will look at some of the issues associated with different
                                            source models and how to address data modeling issues for MDM.
                                        ■   There are different architectural paradigms for master data manage-
                                            ment, and in Chapter 9, MDM Paradigms and Architectures, we look
                                            at existing application and information architectures and different
                                            architectural styles for MDM, how they all reflect a spectrum of
                                            implementations, and the pros and cons of each of those styles.
                                        ■   Given a model and understanding the sources of master data, the next
                                            step is the actual process of data consolidation and integration, and
                                            Chapter 10, Data Consolidation and Integration, looks at collecting
                                            information from across the organization and formulating that into the
                                            integrated master data asset.
                                        ■   The power of MDM increases greatly when the master data can be
                                            integrated back into the existing application environment. Chapter 11,
                                            Master Data Synchronization, discusses the needs and approaches for
                                            synchronizing data back to the existing applications.
                                        ■   The value of MDM does not lie solely with the integration of data. The
                                            ability to consolidate application functionality (e.g., new customer
                                            creation) using a services layer that supplements multiple application
                                            approaches will provide additional value across the existing and future
                                            applications. The topic of a functional application services layer is
                                            covered in Chapter 12, Master Data Management and the Functional
                                            Services Layer.
                                        ■   The book concludes with Chapter 13, Management Guidelines for MDM,
                                            a summary of the guidance provided throughout the preceding chapters
                                            to inform management decisions. To address the ongoing management
                                            issues, we offer some management guidelines for transitioning the
                                            project from developing the business case to maintaining a successful
                                            program.


                                        1.11 SUMMARY
                                        Master data management is more than just an application—it is a
                                        composition of people, tools, methods, and policies that will mold
                                        the future as organizations seek to exploit the value of the corporate
                                        information asset. The secrets to success lie in understanding how




0000856766.INDD 20                                                                                                    8/14/2008 2:07:53 AM
                                                                                           1.11 Summary 21



                MDM will transition your organization into one with a strong data
                governance framework, articulating the roles and responsibilities for
                data stewardship and accountability and creating a culture of proac-
                tive data quality assurance. Consider how transitioning to the different
                target architectures will impact the way you do business and prepare
                your organization for the rapid change. A successful master data man-
                agement implementation will lead to a more effective integration of
                business and technology, as well as better organizational collabora-
                tion and productivity, and will ultimately increase your competitive
                advantage.




0000856766.INDD 21                                                                                 8/14/2008 2:07:53 AM
