Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd    5/9/08     2:05 PM     Page viii




           The authors and publisher have taken care in the preparation of this book, but make no expressed
           or implied warranty of any kind and assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. No liability
           is assumed for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the use of
           the information or programs contained herein.

           © Copyright 2008 by International Business Machines Corporation. All rights reserved.

           Note to U.S. Government Users: Documentation related to restricted right. Use, duplication, or dis-
           closure is subject to restrictions set forth in GSA ADP Schedule Contract with IBM Corporation.

           IBM Press Program Managers: Tara Woodman, Ellice Uffer
           Cover design: IBM Corporation
           Associate Publisher: Greg Wiegand
           Marketing Manager: Kourtnaye Sturgeon
           Publicist: Heather Fox
           Acquisitions Editor: Bernard Goodwin
           Development Editor: Songlin Qin
           Managing Editor: John Fuller
           Designer: Alan Clements
           Project Editors: LaraWysong, Elizabeth Ryan
           Copy Editor: Bonnie Granat
           Proofreader: Linda Begley
           Compositor: International Typesetting and Composition
           Manufacturing Buyer: Anna Popick

           Published by Pearson plc
           Publishing as IBM Press

           IBM Press offers excellent discounts on this book when ordered in quantity for bulk purchases or
           special sales, which may include electronic versions and/or custom covers and content particular to
           your business, training goals, marketing focus, and branding interests. For more information, please
           contact:

                 U.S. Corporate and Government Sales
                 1-800-382-3419
                 corpsales@pearsontechgroup.com

           For sales outside the U.S., please contact:

                 International Sales
                 international@pearsoned.com

           The following terms are trademarks or registered trademarks of International Business Machines
           Corporation in the United States, other countries, or both: IBM, the IBM logo, IBM Press, CICS, DB2,
           developerWorks, MVS, OS/2, RACF, Rational, Redbooks, Tivoli, WebSphere, z/OS, and z/VM. Java and
           all Java-based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the United States, other coun-
           tries, or both. Microsoft, Windows, Windows NT, and the Windows logo are trademarks of Microsoft
           Corporation in the United States, other countries, or both. UNIX is a registered trademark of The
           Open Group in the United States and other countries. Other company, product, or service names
           may be trademarks or service marks of others.
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd    5/9/08    2:05 PM      Page ix




                           This Book Is Safari Enabled

                            The Safari® Enabled icon on the cover of your favorite technology book means the
                            book is available through Safari Bookshelf. When you buy this book, you get free
                            access to the online edition for 45 days. Safari Bookshelf is an electronic reference
           library that lets you easily search thousands of technical books, find code samples, download
           chapters, and access technical information whenever and wherever you need it.

           To gain 45-day Safari Enabled access to this book:
              • Go to http://www.ibmpressbooks.com/safarienabled
              • Complete the brief registration form
              • Enter the coupon code 6YCG-LCUE-QIX3-64EQ-NIJ7
           If you have difficulty registering on Safari Bookshelf or accessing the online edition, please e-mail
           customer-service@safaribooksonline.com.

           Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

           Enterprise master data management: an SOA approach to managing core information/Allen
           Dreibelbis ... [et al.]. p. cm.

             Includes bibliographical references and index.
             ISBN 978-0-13-236625-0 (hardback: alk. paper)
             1. Database management. 2. Web services. 3. Computer architecture. I. Dreibelbis, Allen.
             QA76.9.D3E68 2008
             004.2’2—dc22                                                               2008015422

           All rights reserved. This publication is protected by copyright, and permission must be obtained from
           the publisher prior to any prohibited reproduction, storage in a retrieval system, or transmission in
           any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or likewise. For information
           regarding permissions, write to:

                 Pearson Education, Inc.
                 Rights and Contracts Department
                 501 Boylston Street, Suite 900
                 Boston, MA 02116
                 Fax (617) 671-3447

           ISBN-13: 978-0-13-236625-0
           ISBN-10: 0-13-236625-8

           Text printed in the United States on recycled paper at Courier in Westford, Massachusetts.
           First printing, May 2008
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd   5/9/08   2:05 PM   Page xix




            Foreword




                                              I
                                                  meet with senior business and technical executives
                                                  around the world, in both the public and private sec-
                                                  tors, on a daily basis. CEOs, CFOs, CIOs, and line-of-
                                              business executives alike are all facing incredible
                                              pressures across all fronts. They need to create new
                                              shareholder value by improving both the top and bot-
                                              tom lines. They must improve customer service in the
                                              face of fast-moving global competition. They must miti-
                                              gate risks inherent in basic business decision making and
                                              avoid fraudulent activities in their own operations. And,
                                              as if that isn’t pressure enough, they must also deal with
                                              a plethora of regulatory requirements.
                                               What they’ve come to find is that the availability of
                                               information provides them with some relief from these
                                               almost incessant pressures—the sense of relief that comes
                                               from unlocking information and letting it flow rapidly
           and easily to the people and processes that need it. Trusted information—complete, accurate,
           timely, insightful information—is delivered in the context of the task at hand.
           Take, for instance, one leading electronics manufacturer. By providing unified, timely prod-
           uct master data, the company was able to speed product introduction cycles by weeks and
           improve the satisfaction of their distribution partners at the same time. An innovative
           retailer has created an “endless aisle” to drive up in-store sales—even when it doesn’t have
           products on hand. This innovation is enabled with a unified view of product data that spans
           both the company’s own inventory and that of its distributors. In the case of customer master
           data, a 360-degree view of clients helped one financial services company avoid the risk of
           offering more credit cards to clients who were already in default with their existing credit


                                                        xix
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd   5/9/08   2:05 PM   Page xx




           xx                                                                                    Foreword



           card accounts. Master customer data also helped one telecommunications company capture
           cross-sell opportunities across its landline, wireless, and long-distance services. The same
           project was the foundation for improved customer service in the company’s call center and
           helped to reduce customer churn. The possibilities are endless.
           Unlocking information and letting it flow rapidly and easily to the people and processes
           that need it is easier said than done. Over the past 20 years or more, the IT industry has
           focused on automating business tasks. The result of this effort is a highly complex informa-
           tion landscape; individual automation projects have led to disconnected silos of information.
           Little trusted information exists—there are multiple versions of the truth. Redundancy
           reigns—both logically and physically. Few common definitions of key data elements exist or
           are shared across the enterprise. No common processes for managing and ensuring the
           integrity of critical data domains exist. These facts define today’s environment. They blind
           the business from the information it needs, add cost to the IT infrastructure, and slow the
           ability of the business to move forward with confidence.
           Solving these problems is what Master Data Management and this book are all about.
           As you’ll learn, to successfully relieve today’s business pressures, Master Data Management
           (MDM) has to address needs that exist in several distinct but related dimensions. Master Data
           Management must consider and possibly relate all kinds of Master Data. After all, product
           data likely relates to some customer data, and perhaps to account data, or perhaps to some
           other data domain. Unifying these views could lead to more effective customer service.
           Effective Master Data must also support multiple application styles. Master Data may need to
           feed an online, transactional ordering system, or perhaps a data warehouse needs Master Data
           to provide up-sell suggestions to a call center representative. Furthermore, decisions have to
           be made about how to architect the Master Data Management implementation.
           The topic of Master Data Management may seem daunting, but it’s really no more daunting
           than the industry’s recent focus on Service-Oriented Architectures (SOA). As a matter of fact,
           the two topics, SOA and Master Data, are inextricably related. They are two sides of the same
           coin. A process is only as good as the information it processes, and similarly, information
           needs to be tied to the context of some process to be of any value. So we must step up to
           the Master Data challenge. By unlocking the silos of information created by the past 20 years
           of automation and providing a free flow of trusted information, we will put ourselves in a
           position to deliver significant value to our organizations.
           I encourage you to take advantage of the opportunity this book provides to learn more about
           Master Data Management. You’ll be learning skills you can use to relieve the pressure and
           deliver more value to your organization. Your time will be well spent. Enjoy the experience.

                                                               —Dr. Ambuj Goyal
                                                               General Manager, Information Management
                                                               of IBM Software Group
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd   5/9/08   2:05 PM    Page xxi




            Foreword




                                      H
                                               ow does one build a contemporary “super city” that is both
                                               technologically forward-looking and compatible with its
                                               environment? The challenge is even greater when we build
                                      a “super city” that is built on the foundation of an existing metropolis.
                                      Clearly, architecture remains the key challenge in planning enter-
                                      prise Master Data Management (MDM) infrastructure for the con-
                                      temporary Global 5000-size enterprise. Experience-based blueprints
                                      and architecture patterns are invaluable in such an effort.
                                      In our MDM research with very large-scale enterprises, analysts at
                                      the MDM Institute have seen multimillion dollar ($/€/£) projects
                                      fail due to poor MDM architectural planning. Such failures
           included economic failure caused by the inability to cost-effectively scale or political failure
           caused by the inability to integrate the twenty-first century corporate supply chain.
           Inside this highly anticipated book, MDM practitioners will find architectural patterns pre-
           sented as the nexus of seasoned enterprise architectural experience and early-adopter MDM
           operational experience. Moreover, the authors have shown their deep experience in delivering
           an essential guide for every MDM practitioner—from Enterprise Architect to MDM project
           leadership. This book provides a key technical foundation for understanding the fundamental
           MDM components and how they work together. As a bonus, the reader will benefit from clear
           extrapolations on how SOA implementations both benefit from and require MDM.
           Enterprise Master Data Management: An SOA Approach to Managing Core Information provides
           a vital reference architecture for all serious enterprise MDM practitioners.

                                                                         —Aaron Zornes
                                                                         Founder and Chief Research Officer,
                                                                         CDI-MDM Institute


                                                          xxi
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd    5/9/08    2:05 PM   Page xxiii




            Preface




           What Is This Book About?

           Master Data Management (MDM) refers to the disciplines, technologies, and solutions that are
           used to create and maintain consistent and accurate master data for all stakeholders across and
           beyond the enterprise. Enterprise Master Data Management: An SOA Approach to Managing Core
           Information explains key concepts of MDM, the business value of MDM, and how to architect
           an Enterprise Master Data Management Solution. The book is a comprehensive guide to archi-
           tecting a Master Data Management Solution that includes a reference architecture, solution
           blueprints, architectural principles, and patterns and properties of MDM Systems. The book
           also describes the relationship between MDM and Service-Oriented Architectures, and the
           importance of data governance for managing master data. Figure 1 provides a summary of the
           book’s chapters that are summarized in the following list.
                      Chapter 1: “Introducing Master Data Management” describes the fundamental
                      concepts of master data and MDM. We describe the key characteristics of a Master
                      Data Management System and how the MDM System’s ability to manage master
                      data provides benefits to the enterprise. We also introduce the reader to multiple
                      MDM methods and implementation styles.
                      Chapter 2: “MDM as an SOA Enabler” describes the relationship between MDM
                      and Service-Oriented Architectures. We demonstrate how MDM and SOA work
                      together to help in the achievement of business and IT goals related to managing
                      master data, and explain why we view MDM as an enabler for any SOA-style solution.
                      The chapter includes topics such as SOA concepts, SOA principles, service granular-
                      ity, service composability, and information services.
                      Chapter 3: “MDM Reference Architecture” describes the functional characteristics
                      of the Master Data Management Reference Architecture. We describe how to position
                      and design a Master Data Management Solution within an enterprise. We describe


                                                         xxiii
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd    5/9/08    2:05 PM    Page xxiv




           xxiv                                                                                      Preface




                            Chapter 1
                                                        Chapter 4                  Chapter 7
                            Introducing
                                                      MDM Security                 CDI-MDM
                           Master Data
                                                       and Privacy             Solution Blueprints
                           Management




                                                        Chapter 5
                            Chapter 2                                              Chapter 8
                                                           MDM
                            MDM as an                                           MDM Integration
                                                        Architecture
                           SOA Enabler                                            Blueprints
                                                         Patterns




                            Chapter 3                   Chapter 6                  Chapter 9
                          MDM Reference                 PIM-MDM                  MDM and Data
                           Architecture             Solution Blueprints           Governance



           Figure 1 Chapter Summary.



                      the type of functionality required to deliver a Master Data Management Solution,
                      identify the major architectural building blocks, and then demonstrate how those
                      architectural building blocks collaborate in the delivery of MDM functionality.
                      Chapter 4: “MDM Security and Privacy” describes the role of security and privacy in
                      an MDM architecture and deployment. We provide insight into developing an under-
                      standing of the value of and the risks to master data and then offer guidance for the
                      tasks of selecting and applying the appropriate security controls. We then describe in
                      depth the types of security services that provide the appropriate controls and how
                      those services can apply to the implementation of an MDM Solution.
                      Chapter 5: “MDM Architecture Patterns” provides an overview of architecture pat-
                      terns often encountered in MDM deployments. We describe in detail the architec-
                      ture patterns that helped to shape the MDM Reference Architecture. The
                      architecture patterns encountered were either new architecture patterns, variations
                      of existing architecture patterns, or known architecture patterns that were applied
                      in the area of Master Data Management.
                      Chapter 6: “PIM-MDM Solution Blueprints” introduces the concept of MDM
                      Solution Blueprints; in this chapter, we explain the relationships between archi-
                      tecture patterns and business patterns for PIM-MDM solutions. The Solution
                      Blueprints are based on the MDM Reference Architecture. Based on specific busi-
                      ness requirements for product information management, we describe a variety of
                      PIM-MDM Solution Blueprints for several industries and solution scenarios.
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd    5/9/08    2:05 PM    Page xxv




           Preface                                                                                       xxv



                      Chapter 7: “CDI-MDM Solution Blueprints” explains the relationships between
                      architecture patterns and business patterns for CDI-MDM solutions. The Solution
                      Blueprints are based on the MDM Reference Architecture. Based on specific business
                      requirements for customer data integration, we describe a variety of CDI-MDM
                      Solution Blueprints for several industries and solution scenarios.
                      Chapter 8: “MDM Integration Blueprints” provides further guidance on how to
                      integrate an MDM System into an existing IT landscape. We provide guidance and
                      describe sample integration scenarios, such as integrating the MDM System with a
                      Data Warehouse and integrating an MDM System with an SAP application for the
                      authoring of data.
                      Chapter 9: “MDM and Data Governance” explores the critical nature of data gov-
                      ernance in Master Data Management, and how people, process, and technology
                      work together to leverage master data as an enterprise asset. We explore the critical
                      nature of data governance in Master Data Management and the direct and indirect
                      roles that the architecture for the MDM Solution can play in enabling data governance.



           Who Should Read This Book

           Enterprise Master Data Management: An SOA Approach to Managing Core Information has con-
           tent that should appeal to a diverse business and technical audience, ranging from the exec-
           utive level to experienced MDM practitioners and especially those new to the topic of
           Master Data Management. Newcomers to the topic of MDM, and even SOA, will certainly
           benefit from the chapters that introduce MDM, that explain security and privacy, and that
           show how MDM complements the development of a SOA.
           Readers with a strong technical background, such as Enterprise Architects, System Architects,
           and Information Architects, should enjoy reading the detailed content that provides tech-
           nical guidance for implementing Master Data Management. Technical guidance covers a
           broad range of topics—implementation styles, methods of use, SOA, security and privacy,
           architecture patterns, and data governance—which are then all brought together into the
           Master Data Management Reference Architecture and a set of solution blueprints that span
           CDI-MDM, PIM-MDM, and MDM Integration Blueprints.
           Executives trying to gain an understanding of Master Data Management, and even those
           who are already in the process of deciding how to proceed, will benefit from the content
           that introduces Master Data Management, data governance, and the solution blueprints.



           What You Will Learn

           This book is a comprehensive guide to understanding (1) the importance of Master Data
           Management, (2) the need for an MDM System, and (3) methods of architecting a Master
           Data Management Solution. We cover a wide range of topics in our discussions of the use of
           disciplines, technologies, and solutions to implement Master Data Management. Readers of
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd   5/9/08   2:05 PM    Page xxvi




           xxvi                                                                                   Preface



           this book have the opportunity to increase their knowledge about a broad range of topics
           related to MDM—from both a business and a technical perspective. Readers will learn the
           answers to the following questions about Master Data Management, which constitute its
           core concepts:
                  • What is Master Data Management, and why is there a need for managed master data?
                  • How can an MDM System provide a consistent understanding and trust of master
                    data entities?
                  • What is the relationship between SOA and MDM, and how can MDM enable the
                    implementation of a SOA solution?
                  • How can a security architecture to maintain the security and privacy of master data
                    be implemented?
                  • What are the core architectural principles, properties, and patterns for MDM Systems?
                  • What data governance is critical for the management of master data?
           In addition to learning MDM’s core concepts, the reader will understand how they are incor-
           porated into the design for a Master Data Management Solution. The MDM Reference
           Architecture provides the reader with a reference architecture that describes the functional
           characteristics of an MDM Solution implementation within an enterprise. MDM Integration
           Blueprints, PIM-MDM and CDI-MDM, and Solution Blueprints then provide the reader with
           knowledge of how to use the reference architecture and architecture patterns to implement
           a specific solution to solve a specific set of business problems.



           How to Read This Book

           There are several ways to read this book. The most obvious way to do it is to read it cover
           to cover to get a complete end-to-end picture of Enterprise Master Data Management.
           However, the authors organized the content in such a way that there are four basic reading
           paths through the book. Figure 2 depicts the following two reading paths:
                  • To understand the key concepts of Enterprise Master Data Management, we suggest
                    reading Chapter 1, Introducing Master Data Management; Chapter 3, MDM Reference
                    Architecture; and Chapter 9, MDM and Data Governance. This path should provide
                    the reader with a clear understanding of Master Data Management, data gover-
                    nance, and how to implement MDM within the enterprise.
                  • To understand the key concepts for designing Enterprise Master Data
                    Management Architectures, we suggest that the reader start with Chapter 1 in
                    order to gain an understanding of the need for an MDM System, methods of such
                    a system’s use, and implementation styles. Chapter 2 describes the relationship
                    between MDM and SOA, and how SOA principles can be applied to the design of
                    the solution. Chapter 3 explains the MDM Reference Architecture—the founda-
                    tion for any MDM deployment—from an architectural perspective. Chapter 4
                    details aspects of the MDM Reference Architecture that are related to MDM Security
                    and Privacy.
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd      5/9/08     2:05 PM    Page xxvii




           Preface                                                                                         xxvii



                                            Master Data Management Key Concepts


                      Chapter 1                             Chapter 3                          Chapter 9
                      Introducing                       MDM Reference                      MDM and Data
                     Master Data                         Architecture                       Governance
                     Management




                                  Designing a Enterprise Master Data Management Architecture


                      Chapter 1                             Chapter 2                          Chapter 3
                      Introducing                         MDM as an                        MDM Reference
                     Master Data                         SOA Enabler                        Architecture
                     Management




                                                          Chapter 4
                                                         MDM Security
                                                          and Privacy



           Figure 2 Enterprise Master Data Management Reading Paths.


           Figure 3 shows the suggested reading paths for the reader who is interested in detailed
           knowledge about solution blueprints. In both paths, Chapter 8, MDM Integration Blueprints,
           is represented as an optional chapter by the use of a dashed arrow and would be of interest
           to those readers who desire further integration details. Based on the objectives of the reader,
           Chapter 9, MDM and Data Governance, should be considered for each of the suggested reading
           paths. The suggested reading paths are as follows:
                     • PIM-MDM Solution Blueprints: If the reader is investigating solutions for the
                       Product master data domain, they are described in Chapter 6. Reading that chapter
                       has prerequisites, though. The reader should be familiar with Chapters 1, 2, and 3.
                       Because the solution architectures are based on the MDM Component Model, a
                       sound understanding of the MDM Reference Architecture is necessary. Explaining
                       certain aspects of a solution also requires an understanding of MDM Security and
                       Privacy, which are described in Chapters 4 and 5. Chapter 5 also explains key areas
                       of the solution architecture.
                     • CDI-MDM Solution Blueprints: Solutions focused on customer master data are
                       described in Chapter 7, which has the same prerequisites as the PIM-MDM Solution
                       Blueprints—namely, Chapters 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd        5/9/08     2:05 PM   Page xxviii




           xxviii                                                                                   Preface




                        Chapter 1                                                       Chapter 3
                                                          Chapter 2
                       Introducing                                                    MDM Reference
                                                          MDM as an
                      Master Data                                                      Architecture
                                                         SOA Enabler
                      Management




                        Chapter 6                         Chapter 5
                                                                                        Chapter 4
                        PIM-MDM            PIM-MDM           MDM
                                                                                      MDM Security
                    Solution Blueprints                   Architecture
                                                                                       and Privacy
                                                           Patterns

                                                                          CD
                                                                            I-M
                                                                               DM



                        Chapter 9                         Chapter 8                     Chapter 7
                     MDM and Data                       MDM Integration
                      Governance                                                        CDI-MDM
                                                          Blueprints                Solution Blueprints



           Figure 3 Solution Blueprint Reading Paths.




           What Is Not Covered

           This book covers many of the key business and technical aspects of Master Data Management
           and is a comprehensive guide to architecting a Master Data Management Solution, but it does
           not provide project planning management methodology or an MDM Solution Architecture
           based on software products. IT Architects will make design decisions and select software
           products capable of meeting the functional and nonfunctional requirements for a specific
           solution by considering the existing hardware and software infrastructure for the specific IT
           environment. Based on our experience, we have provided the reader with a comprehensive
           guide to designing an MDM Solution. We have also explained the criteria that the reader
           should use when selecting software for the MDM System. In Appendix B, Software and Solution
           Offerings for MDM Deployments, we offer a listing of Solution offerings and software prod-
           ucts grouped according to the MDM Logical System Architecture. We also provide the
           reader with the links to relevant Web pages for the providers of those solution offerings.
           There are organizational and IT aspects that should be considered as part of the implemen-
           tation and deployment of an MDM Solution. The people who are developing a project plan
Dreibelbis_00FM.qxd   5/9/08   2:05 PM    Page xxix




           Preface                                                                                    xxix



           and implementation strategy need to consider the priority of the business problems being
           addressed, technology gaps, and the current information management capabilities of the
           organization. We provide guidance throughout the book on how to address some of these
           aspects, but we have not dedicated any additional chapters to this set of topics. However,
           the reader will find in Appendix A, MDM User Roles, a summary of the types of user roles,
           responsibilities, and associated skill descriptions for the various types of roles that we have
           seen on MDM projects. The primary focus of our efforts has been on providing the reader
           with the information required for an understanding of the need for Master Data
           Management and with a comprehensive guide to designing an MDM Solution.


           Conventions

           Throughout this book, we mention a number of regulations that can influence how to con-
           figure, manage, and protect a Master Data Management environment. To help understand
           those relevant regulations and their scope, we have collected information about each regu-
           lation and provided a summary in Appendix C, Master Data Management and Regulations.
           We include a table that includes other information about each regulation, such as industries
           affected, master data domain, and Web site addresses where more information about the
           regulation is available. The book’s text has frequent footnote references that direct the
           reader to Appendix C for further information.
           We also refer to a number of industry and technical standards throughout the book and
           have chosen to include a description of those standards in Appendix D, Standards and
           Specifications. We do not use footnotes to direct the reader to Appendix D when a standard
           is mentioned, but we do encourage readers to refer to that appendix if they are unfamiliar
           with a particular standard. Appendix D contains a table that identifies the standard, pro-
           vides a link to a Web site for further information, and presents brief notes about the
           standard.
           Many of the chapters have references to additional sources of information that can provide
           further information about the subject being discussed. External references for each chapter
           are identified at the end of each chapter and referenced as footnotes. Each reference follows
           a format that includes the appropriate information relative to the reference, such as the
           author’s name, title of the book or article, date of publication, publisher, ISBN number, and
           Web site.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08   12:25 PM   Page 1




            Chapter 1

                                                      Introducing Master
                                                      Data Management




           A
                   s companies struggle to become more agile by implementing information systems
                   that support and facilitate changing business requirements, the management of core
                   information, such as information about customers or products, becomes increasingly
           important. We call this information master data. In many companies, this master data is
           kept in many overlapping systems and is often of unknown quality. For many organizations,
           this situation constitutes a dilemma—it becomes increasingly difficult for organizations to
           implement change. Architectural approaches such as Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA)
           are difficult to implement when an organization does not have a common definition and
           management of its core information.
           This chapter provides an introduction to master data and the characteristics of Master Data
           Management (MDM) systems. We start with a brief introduction of master data and explain
           why the management of master data is important to an enterprise. The second section will
           outline how different pressures have caused many organizations to lose control of their mas-
           ter data, resulting in a pool of partially redundant, sometimes unmanaged, data. Section
           three provides a more detailed description of the key dimensions of MDM solutions, describ-
           ing the different domains of master data, the different ways in which master data manage-
           ment systems are used, and the different ways that MDM Systems can be implemented. The
           final section discusses how the management of master data can benefit an organization by
           providing a trusted foundation of authoritative data that can be used consistently across an
           enterprise and that can also evolve in a managed manner to meet changing business needs.


           1.1      Introduction to Master Data Management

           The management of key organizational data has always been important. Knowing who your
           customers are, what products and services you offer, and what the arrangements or accounts
           you have with your customers and suppliers is fundamental to the operation of most


                                                        1
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM    Page 2




           2                                                     Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           organizations. Whether your organization is a bank, a retailer, or a government agency,
           there is a core set of such data that is used across the enterprise. It is used to open new
           accounts, to introduce new products to the market, and to determine what products to offer
           customers. This data is called master data.
           Master data is some of the most valuable information that a business owns. It represents
           core information about the business—such as customers, suppliers, products, and
           accounts—and the relationships between them. Each of these domains of master data rep-
           resents information that is needed across different business processes, across organizational
           units, and between operational systems and decision support systems. In essence, master
           data defines an enterprise.
           Master data captures the key things that all parts of an organization must agree on, both in
           meaning and usage. For example, it is important that all parts of an organization share an
           understanding of what defines a customer, which customers exist, where customers are
           located, and what products they have purchased or have been offered. A common under-
           standing is useful both to prevent bad things from inadvertently happening—such as a bill
           getting posted to the wrong address—and to provide an opportunity for significant business
           benefits such as improving the ability to sell complementary products to customers. Master
           data is important in both operational and analytical environments. Many operational busi-
           ness processes touch master data—for example, introducing a new product to the market,
           signing up a new supplier, and adding a new phone service to a customer account. All of
           these processes touch many different application systems that must all share a core set of
           information about products, suppliers, and customers. For the business process to execute
           properly, this master data must be accurate and consistent. Analytical systems have similar
           requirements—master data often forms the key dimensions and hierarchies used for report-
           ing and analysis of key business data. Increasingly, analytics are also being applied within
           operational business processes to better monitor and optimize business transactions.
           Trustworthy data is a fundamental ingredient of meaningful analytics.
           Management of master data is not new. Most organizations have systems to store and
           retrieve the master data that is critical to their business. Unfortunately, many information
           systems have become increasingly complex in response to the pressures of growth, business
           changes, and technology changes. It has therefore become increasingly difficult for organi-
           zations to identify, maintain, and use an authoritative set of master data in a consistent way
           across the enterprise.
           Many of the IT architectures1 that were used to construct existing customer information
           files or master product databases were designed in support of a few, typically homegrown,
           applications. More often than not, these applications were themselves constructed in sup-
           port of a particular line of business rather than for the enterprise as a whole. As the business
           changed over time, it may have been easier to create a new application and database to handle




           1. The term Information Technology (IT) will be used to generically refer to the organization respon-
           sible for operating the computing environment in a large organization.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08     12:25 PM     Page 3




           1.1 Introduction to Master Data Management                                                    3



           the new requirements than it was to modify all of the existing applications. For example,
           as the Internet arose as a powerful communications mechanism, companies wanting to
           enable customer self-service on the Web needed to either extend their existing systems or
           create new applications and databases to manage this new channel of communication.
           Because the Web introduced the need to maintain attributes such as e-mail addresses, login
           names and passwords that existing systems didn’t support, many enterprises found it was
           easier to create new applications and databases to support the Internet channel than it was
           to extend existing systems. In other words, it was more expedient to build a new system and
           figure out how to synchronize it with existing systems than it was to extend the existing
           ones. Although not ideal, doing this may not be a problem if you only have a few simple
           information systems—but in a larger enterprise, especially one that has grown through mul-
           tiple mergers and acquisitions, the situation can quickly become problematic. Information
           Technology (IT) systems, often easier to extend than to change, become increasingly com-
           plex with many point-to-point integrations and partially redundant information systems.
           For example, it is not unusual for a large financial institution to have more than 20 systems
           that maintain information about customers. Attempting to synchronize customer information
           across such a large number of systems can result in an unmanageable number of point-to-point
           integrations—a rat’s nest of information flows.
           The existence of these partially redundant data stores results in additional complexity
           throughout the systems architecture of an organization—not to mention additional IT
           costs. The definitions of what might appear to be common terms, such as “supplier” or
           “product,” will likely be different within the different systems. The data itself may be
           inconsistent because of systems enforcing different rules for data validation and cleansing.
           It is therefore difficult for a business to achieve a complete and consistent understanding
           of master data that is spread across multiple systems if those systems lack the proper con-
           trols and integration.
           This situation leads to several consequences. Perhaps the most fundamental issue is the
           quandary for users and applications—where should they go to find and use accurate data?
           Is there an authoritative source that can be trusted? Without an authoritative source of mas-
           ter data, business processes can become more complex to develop and implement when a
           complete and accurate view of master data is not available. Similarly, implementing decision
           support systems can also be tricky without well-known sources for trusted master data.
           A second consequence is architectural brittleness—making a small change in one system can
           have a significant impact on many other systems. Analyzing the scope and cost of a poten-
           tial change across a complex web of interconnected systems can be difficult. This difficulty
           is significant, because changes are frequently required to support new business require-
           ments, to support mergers and acquisitions, and to integrate new applications. Indeed, this
           architectural brittleness significantly impacts the organization’s ability to evolve and change
           according to market pressures. Supporting the growth of a business in terms of operational
           throughput or geographical distribution yields similar issues. Distributing master data
           through large clusters of computers requires careful design to manage the synchronization
           of the master data. The final issue is IT cost—redundant data requires redundant storage as
           well as the communications and computational infrastructure to maintain it.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM    Page 4




           4                                                   Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           The business consequences are perhaps even more significant. When master data is spread
           across multiple systems in an unmanaged way, there may be multiple competing views of
           master data: different customer lists, lists of suppliers or product definitions. Without a com-
           plete and authoritative set of master information, it is difficult for enterprises to optimize
           their relationships with customers and suppliers across different product lines; it is difficult
           to rapidly introduce new products to the market or to relate sales performance to product
           categories. For example, we have worked with large enterprises where customers in one busi-
           ness unit were suppliers in another—consolidating customers and suppliers into a common
           Master Data Repository allows the businesses to more effectively negotiate favorable contracts.
           In an ideal world, there would be a single place where all common master data in an
           organization is stored and managed. The data would be accurate, consistent, and main-
           tained in a coherent and secure manner. All updates would take place against this single copy
           of master data, and all of the different users of master data would interact with this single
           authoritative source of information. For customer data, such an arrangement means that
           all applications that use customer data would go to a single source; the data stored there
           would be the customer data used, for example, to open and close accounts across all lines of
           business, for provisioning accounts, and for all marketing and analysis.
           A single source of master data represents three important capabilities: an authoritative
           source of information, the ability to use the information in a consistent way, and the abil-
           ity to evolve the master data and the management of the master data to accommodate
           changing business needs. A suite of services can then be created around this master data that
           allows the data to be seamlessly integrated into business processes and analytical environ-
           ments. Together, these three capabilities provide organizations with a powerful foundation
           for efficient business execution.
           An authoritative source of master data can be trusted to be a high-quality collection of data
           that follows a well-defined and agreed-upon structure. The data has been standardized
           (e.g., all address information follows the same format). Duplicates have been rationalized.
           The currency of the information is maintained through continuous or periodic updates. The
           information is complete, secure, and accurate.
           Authoritative master data exposed through reusable business services provides the organi-
           zation with the flexibility to exploit master data in new ways by enabling applications to
           follow repeatable, defined patterns of usage for operating over this data. For example, in a
           banking environment, customer profile information maintained as part of the master cus-
           tomer data can be used consistently across all of the different ways that a customer may
           interact with the different parts of a business—the branch teller, the call center representa-
           tive, and the Web—to ensure a smooth and consistent customer experience. Each of the sup-
           porting systems would use the same business service to retrieve customer information. As
           new opportunities to interact with the customer arise—for example, via a customer’s cell
           phone—again, the same services could be once again reused, because both the data and
           their method of use have been agreed upon.
           A critical element in this ideal world of master data is flexibility. As business requirements,
           regulations, and implementation technologies change, we often find that the definition and
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08     12:25 PM     Page 5




           1.1 Introduction to Master Data Management                                                  5



           use of the master data needs to evolve along with it. Again, in our ideal world, this type of
           change would be a nondisruptive change to our environment. For example, if a retailer
           decides to open up stores in a new country, it should be easy to extend the definition of its
           products to accommodate additional information, such as new currencies and new regula-
           tory requirements. At the same time, we don’t want this simple data model change to break
           existing applications. The master data environment must thus support a smooth evolution
           of both the data structures as well as the services that manage the behavior of the master
           data. In addition to supporting evolution, the ideal system also supports the extension of
           the environment, for example, to add new domains of master data, and the linkages
           between them, in a nondisruptive manner.

           The goal of Master Data Management (MDM) is to enable this ideal world. Through a com-
           bination of architecture, technology, and business processes, MDM provides an approach to
           incrementally reducing the amount of redundantly managed information and providing
           information consumers throughout an enterprise with authoritative master data. MDM
           Systems that focus exclusively on managing information about customers are often called
           Customer Data Integration (CDI) systems. MDM Systems that focus exclusively on man-
           aging the descriptions of products are called Product Information Management (PIM)
           systems. MDM Systems that enable multiple domains of master data, and that support
           multiple implementation styles and methods of use, are sometimes also called Multi-Form
           MDM Systems. The different technical characteristics of MDM Systems will be described in
           Section 1.3.

           A Master Data Management strategy addresses a wide variety of business and technical con-
           cerns within an enterprise. It is often wise to address these concerns incrementally.
           Incremental deployment allows significant value to be provided as each phase of an MDM
           project expands the capabilities of the MDM System by integrating additional systems,
           extending the kinds of data managed, or providing new ways in which the master data may
           be used. The ideal MDM implementation represents a state of management that organiza-
           tions may approach over time. An incremental approach allows benefits to be seen and
           measured throughout the many phases of an MDM implementation project. For these reasons,
           MDM projects are key strategic initiatives with measurable benefit to the entire enterprise.

           MDM is a key facet of a broader enterprise information management strategy. MDM plays a
           key role within an information architecture as a provider and custodian of master data to
           the enterprise. This broader strategy must map from the business imperatives to the current
           and future IT environment. For example, the business need to cross-sell between different
           lines of business in a large organization may drive the need for MDM. Other drivers, such
           as the need to comply with Anti-Money Laundering regulations, require banks to apply a
           broader suite of technologies that are architected in such a way as to detect and respond to
           potentially fraudulent activities. These examples reveal the broader need to define an enter-
           prise information management strategy and the architectures to support it.

           This book provides a comprehensive guide to architecting MDM systems. It includes archi-
           tectural principles, a reference architecture, patterns, and properties of MDM Systems. We
           have chosen to approach MDM from the perspective of Service-Oriented Architectures (SOA),
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08   12:25 PM   Page 6




           6                                                   Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           and more specifically, from the viewpoint of treating information as a core set of business
           services within an enterprise architecture. This approach helps us to address the following
           three underlying principles—that an MDM System:
                    • Provides a consistent understanding and trust of master data entities
                    • Provides mechanisms for consistent use of master data across the organization
                    • Is designed to accommodate and manage change
           Achieving these MDM goals requires MDM software that is capable of both managing mas-
           ter data and providing master data to a community of users and systems. These goals may
           also lead to organizational change to support the implementation of business practices that
           properly manage and exploit the master data.
           We will explore these principles in further detail throughout this chapter, and they will be
           woven throughout the rest of the book as a set of underlying assumptions that define the
           nucleus of an MDM System. In the next sections, we spend more time on why MDM is an
           important aspect of an enterprise’s information architecture. Section 1.3 introduces key tech-
           nical characteristics of MDM systems, setting the stage for the deeper architectural discus-
           sions in subsequent chapters. The final section discusses the business benefits of an MDM system
           using the three principles described above.



           1.2      Why an MDM System?

           Master data has been around a long time, so why do we suddenly need MDM Systems
           to manage this kind of information? What makes this master data special? Why is it
           important? These are important questions—so within this section we look at how the infor-
           mation that is some of the most valuable information to an enterprise has become virtually
           unmanaged and often ungoverned. The fundamental purpose of an MDM System is to serve
           as the authoritative source for master data: An MDM System is a system that provides clean,
           consistent master data to the enterprise. If the business benefits of a managed master data
           environment are clear, then why is it that enterprises have unmanaged master data? Why
           do organizations have multiple, often inconsistent, repositories of data that should be main-
           tained in common across the enterprise? For convenience, we call this data Unmanaged
           Master Data.
           First, let’s consider the distribution of unmanaged master data throughout a typical enter-
           prise. Why are there multiple copies of master data? Are these copies redundant? This dis-
           tribution may be viewed along any number of dimensions, including by line of business
           (LOB), by organizational change—such as mergers and acquisitions, and by the introduc-
           tion of packaged software.

           1.2.1 A Cross-LOB Perspective
           Lines of business (LOB) are the natural segmentations of responsibilities that form within an
           organization, especially where the organization carries a broad portfolio of products or serv-
           ices. By their nature, lines of business often have unique perspectives on core business
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM       Page 7




           1.2 Why an MDM System?                                                                           7



                                            Investments
                                        Loans
                                 Deposits




           Figure 1.1 Lines of business often maintain their own business information.


           information, such as products (the products that this LOB offers), customer (the type of cus-
           tomer information that is important), and account (the nature of an ongoing relationship
           with a customer based on one or more products). For example, a line of business within a
           financial institution that is focused on deposits will usually carry different product infor-
           mation than a line of business focusing on investments—see Figure 1.1. Similarly, the cus-
           tomer information that is important to a mortgage department is often different from the
           information that is important in the support of checking accounts. In reality, neighboring
           lines of business experience varying levels of cohesion—some lines of business share a great
           deal of business information, while others share a good deal less.
           Within large organizations, lines of business frequently act as very different suborganiza-
           tions, each funding and maintaining its own suites of applications and data. Even where
           similar, or indeed identical, applications such as Customer Relationship Management (CRM)
           or Campaign Management are in use, lines of business often install and manage their own
           instances of these solutions independently. For example, when multiple LOBs implement a
           software package like SAP, they often make unique customizations to the data models and
           look-up tables, which results in multiple independent implementations.
           Typically, lines of business capture and maintain unique representations of core business
           information (customer, product, arrangement), each with their own unique slant on the
           usage and representation of that information. While regulatory requirements have a role in
           these differences, in many cases this issue is about control. A line of business sees this data as
           critical to its day-to-day operations and may not see value in sharing this data within the
           broader enterprise. All of these factors encourage lines of business to seek to control their own
           master data, and they sometimes act as barriers to the sharing of this business information.


           1.2.2 A Cross-Channel Perspective
           Each line of business may also have a number of distinct (distribution) channels to market.
           While these channels are often very similar, the resulting treatment of business information
           is often very different. For example, within a single line of business there are frequently
           entirely different solutions in place for attended channels (such as a branch office) and unat-
           tended channels (such as the Internet). These differences in customer interaction patterns
           across channels often drive a perception that the problem space differs sufficiently to merit
           an entirely different solution. In other cases, increased complexity is caused by evolution,
           with emerging channels adopting solutions that were simply not available when support for
           existing channels was defined.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM      Page 8




           8                                                      Chapter 1   •    Introducing Master Data Management



                                         Investments

                                       Loans
                                 Deposits




                                            Partner         Internet              Branch

           Figure 1.2 Channel variance further scatters business information.


           There are, of course, valid differences in business information across channels—Internet-
           only product offers, in-branch deals, and so on. However, these variances are often best
           viewed as just that—minor differences of the business information rather than fundamen-
           tally different information.
           The location of master data can also be influenced by the realization that core information2
           can be shared across lines of business, particularly where the adoption of a new channel acts
           as a catalyst driving a common view of master data across that channel but not across
           related channels. The result can be a unification of master data across lines of business for
           some channels but not for others. For example, many enterprises strive to provide a single
           point of entry for customer self-service over the Internet. Even if a customer has five differ-
           ent kinds of accounts at a bank (managed by five different systems), the organization will
           still want to present a unified view of that customer relationship through this channel.
           Indeed, one of the key business themes that we see across many industries is the desire to
           change the focus of the business from an account-centric one to a customer-centric one
           across the enterprise.
           All of these factors add an additional dimension to the distribution of master data—the loca-
           tion of master data stores across lines of business, and distribution across channels, as
           shown in Figure 1.2.

           1.2.3 A Cross-Business Subdomain Perspective
           Different concerns across lines of business and channels often result in variation, not just in
           where and how business information is captured, but also in what information is required.
           In the case of customer data, the branch channel may seek to consider a much broader range
           of information (customer, contact preferences, contact and case history) than related chan-
           nels such as partner networks, which may only be interested in a subset of this information.
           The result can be a fundamentally different scope of business information across channels
           or lines of business. Each channel and/or line of business may also distribute this informa-
           tion across solutions in different ways, adding further to the complexity of the distribution
           of customer information, as shown in Figure 1.3.


           2. Regulatory requirements may, in some industries, limit the amount of data that can be shared across
           business segments.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08     12:25 PM    Page 9




           1.2   Why an MDM System?                                                                   9



                                      Investments
                                      Loans                                   Case history
                                                                            Contact preference
                              Deposits                                             Party




                                         Partner    Internet       Branch

           Figure 1.3    Variance in business information further fragments master data.


           Additionally, different organization units may have different scopes of interest for product
           information. Financial controllers, for example, may wish to consider the profitability of
           different products, product groups, and services. This information is a different subset of
           product information than the information considered during the process of offering a prod-
           uct to a potential customer.
           Variance of the business domain and the information needs of that domain drives fur-
           ther distribution of master data, because each line of business and each channel seeks to
           maintain its own unique perspective about the business information that best meets its
           needs.


           1.2.4 A Cross-Application/Technology Perspective
           An increasingly common reason for master data redundancy is the introduction of packaged
           applications and solutions (CRM, ERP, etc.). Typically, packaged systems are designed to
           manage their own master data. When multiple packaged applications are deployed in an
           environment, an interesting conundrum arises—each of the packaged applications will
           likely only store the information it needs for its own operations—so when you have two or
           more of them deployed in an environment, there is no common definition of the master
           data elements. For example, information about customers is normally needed by both an
           ERP system and a CRM system—because they each likely maintain unique customer attrib-
           utes, neither represents a complete view of the customer information. As we describe in
           Chapters 3 and 5, a common pattern is to use the MDM System to support the complete rep-
           resentation of customer information through the aggregation or federation of customer data
           from multiple systems.
           Integrating a packaged application system into an enterprise can be a difficult and costly
           endeavor, because the new system must be synchronized with existing sources of data,
           including master data. When packaged solutions contain multiple independent applica-
           tions, they may need to synchronize master data within their own solutions as well as with
           the customer’s environment. In an environment with many such applications, pair-wise
           synchronization can be complex and fragile. Using an MDM System as a common hub from
           which other systems are synchronized simplifies the number of connections and can
           improve the overall quality of master data and the manageability of the environment.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM    Page 10




           10                                                   Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           Finally, consider the effect of variance in the technical platform or application solution on
           the distribution of master data. Between lines of business or channels, many different rep-
           resentations of business information may evolve based on different platforms or applica-
           tions. For example, if a customer has a well-tuned mainframe application already managing
           product data, extending that system to supply information to a new channel application
           may be perceived as too costly. Real or not, the perception is often that these platform dif-
           ferences are difficult to resolve, and often no attempt is made to integrate across different
           systems, which results in further distribution of unmanaged master data.
           The result of all of these varying concerns is that master data is often widely scattered across
           the enterprise, with each channel, line of business, and solution stack evolving its own unique
           silo of master data. Where attempts to share business information do exist, they are usually ad
           hoc in nature and limited to a particular channel or product type. For example, it is not
           uncommon to find at least a couple of dozen stores of customer data in a financial institution.


           1.2.5 Mergers and Acquisitions
           Mergers and acquisitions serve to dramatically accelerate the replication of business infor-
           mation within an enterprise. Each party to a merger has its own distinct set of master data
           sources along the dimensions highlighted earlier—a sort of master data fingerprint. Without
           extensive effort to converge these data stores, the resulting merged organization will not be
           able to effectively leverage the combined assets (customers, products, etc.) of the new organ-
           ization or be able to achieve economies of scale in the operation of the merged enterprise.
           For example, consider a case where organization A is to merge with organization B. Both
           organizations maintain LOB-specific stores of master data, as shown in Figure 1.4; however,

                               Organization A

                                          Investments
                                        Loans

                                  Deposits




                                                 Branch      Internet

                               Organization B

                                          Investments
                                        Loans
                                  Deposits




                                                 Branch        Internet

           Figure 1.4   Two organizations with different patterns of data distribution.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08   12:25 PM      Page 11




           1.2   Why an MDM System?                                                                     11



           both organizations consider themselves to have developed strong offerings for the Internet
           channel. Organization A shares information across lines of business within the Internet
           channel, while organization B has all but eliminated channel-specific perspectives on mas-
           ter data, and each line of business operates on the same data, regardless of the channel
           concerned.
           Merging these organizations yields a very different picture, however. The result is a dramatic
           increase in line of business-specific solutions, because each organization brings to the table
           its own solution, in each line of business. Within a specific channel (e.g., Internet), the two
           contrasting approaches of sharing information across lines of business, and eliminating
           channel-specific variances do not align well, which results in further complexity, as shown
           in Figure 1.5, with one solution seeking to be a channel-specific source of truth for all lines
           of business, and another seeking to eliminate channel-specific management of business
           information.
           Consolidation and modernization of existing systems often require a similar kind of con-
           vergence. For example, an organization may, after several years of geographic growth,
           realize that each region has independently created localized systems that contain par-
           tially replicated and overlapping sets of data, which has led to an incomplete and incon-
           sistent view of its customers, suppliers, and products. Addressing these business problems
           can be viewed as a merger of the different geographically based organizations and
           systems.
           In summary, there are many natural forces that have led many enterprises to have multiple
           copies of master data spread out across different lines of business, different communications
           channels, and different kinds of applications. As the number of unique copies of master data
           increases, synchronization via point-to-point connections becomes more complex, and the
           overall environment becomes more difficult to both manage and change. Indeed, when
           multiple systems manage the metadata, it is hard to achieve consistency of the information.
           For example, it is likely that many of the applications used to manage master data will have
           different rules for validating and standardizing the data—thus, even simple things like ship-
           ping address information for a customer may not be consistent.




                                        Investments
                                       Loans

                                 Deposits




                                                Branch      Internet

           Figure 1.5    The resulting merger often suffers from the worst of all inputs.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08     12:25 PM      Page 12




           12                                                               Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management




           1.3      What Is a Master Data Management System?

           Master Data Management Systems provide authoritative data to an organization. But what
           kind of data? How do we work with the MDM System? How do we integrate the MDM
           System with the existing systems? These questions describe a solution space within which
           there are a wide variety of ways in which MDM Systems can be deployed and used accord-
           ing to the needs and goals of the enterprise.
           In this section, we describe the three primary dimensions of this MDM solutions space. As
           shown in Figure 1.6, the three dimensions are the domains of master data that are man-
           aged, the methods by which the system is to be used, and the styles of implementation
           that are needed for a particular deployment. It is important to note that MDM implemen-
           tations are typically not deployed in a “big bang” approach where all domains are managed
           across all methods of use. Organizations generally start with a limited scope that provides
           the highest return on investment in a relatively short time frame. As MDM implementations
           are rolled out over several phases, the space of the implementation may grow. Additional
           domains are added, the method of use may expand, or the implementation style may
           change to deliver additional business value. The term Multiform MDM is sometimes used
           to describe MDM Systems that support these three dimensions of MDM Systems. The fol-
           lowing sections describe these dimensions in greater detail.




                    Method of Use
                    How are we going to use master data
                    (collaborative, operational, analytical …)



                                                                 Implementation Style
                                                                 How do we architect the solution
                                                                 (registry, coexistence, transaction …)




                                                      MDM System



                                                                            Domains
                                                                            What master data do we need to manage
                                                                            (customer, product, account, …)
                      Initial Focus and Phased Rollout
                      Where should you start, what should you consider next
                      based on your priorities and return on investment

           Figure 1.6 Dimensions of Master Data Management.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 13




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                               13



           1.3.1 Master Data Domains
           Master Data Management has emerged over the last few years from the recognition that the
           existing markets of Customer Data Integration (CDI) and Product Information Management
           (PIM) had key similarities as well as differences. CDI focuses on managing people and organ-
           izations—which we will collectively call parties. A CDI system can aggregate party infor-
           mation from many preexisting systems, manage the use of the party data, and distribute the
           information out to downstream systems such as billing systems, campaign management
           systems, or CRM systems.
           PIM systems manage the definition and lifecycle of a finished good or service—collecting
           product information from multiple sources, getting agreement on the definition of prod-
           ucts, and then publishing this information to Web sites, marketing systems, merchandizing
           systems, and so on. PIM systems are distinct from Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) sys-
           tems, which focus on the design and development of products rather than the preparation
           of product information to support sales and distribution. There is a natural flow of infor-
           mation from a PLM system to a PIM system as a product transitions from engineering into
           marketing and sales.
           CDI and PIM both represent a common pattern—that of aggregating data from existing sys-
           tems, cleaning and augmenting that data, and then distributing that data to downstream
           systems. PIM and CDI systems differ in the most common ways in which the data is used
           after it has been loaded into the MDM System—we discuss the different methods of use in
           the following section. It is important to note that MDM Systems do more than just store and
           retrieve data—they incorporate business logic to reflect the proper management and han-
           dling of the master data. The rules for handling a product lifecycle are different than those
           for managing the lifecycle for a customer. The MDM System may also be configured to issue
           alerts when interesting things happen. For example, billing systems may need to get notified
           immediately when a customer address changes. This business logic can be customized for a
           particular deployment to reflect the needs of a particular industry as well as the unique char-
           acteristics of the implementing organization.
           As CDI and PIM products have matured, it was also observed that while CDI systems focused
           on the customer, it was often convenient for such systems to include references to the prod-
           ucts or accounts that a customer has. Similarly, PIM systems often need to store or reference
           the suppliers of the products or services. Supporting and using these cross-domain relation-
           ships has become a significant aspect of MDM Systems.
           The kinds of information treated as master data varies from industry to industry and from
           one organization to another. An insurance company may wish to treat information about
           customers, policies, and accounts as master data, while a telecommunications company may
           be concerned with customers, accounts, location (of cell phone towers), and services. A
           manufacturer may be focused on managing suppliers, customers, distributors, and products.
           A government agency may want to focus only on citizens and non-citizens. In these exam-
           ples, we see a lot of commonality as well as differences. In general, master data can be cate-
           gorized according to the kinds of questions they address; three of the most common
           questions—“Who?,” “What?,” and “How?” are addressed by the party, product, and account
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM     Page 14




           14                                                        Chapter 1    •   Introducing Master Data Management



           domains of master data. Each of these domains represents a class of things—for example,
           the party domain can represent any kind of person or organization, including customers,
           suppliers, employees, citizens, distributors, and organizations. Each of these kinds of party
           shares a common set of attributes—such as the name of the party, where it is located (a party
           may have multiple locations such as home, work, vacation home, etc.), how to contact it,
           what kind of relationship the organization has with the party, and so forth. Similarly, the
           product domain can represent all kinds of things that you sell or use—from tangible con-
           sumer goods to service products such as mortgages, telephone services, or insurance policies.
           The account domain describes how a party is related to a product or service that the organ-
           ization offers. What are the relations of the parties to this account, and who owns the
           account? Which accounts are used for which products? What are the terms and conditions
           associated with the products and the accounts? And how are products bundled?
           Location information is often associated with one of the other domains. When we talk
           about where a product is sold, where a customer lives, and the address at which an insur-
           ance policy is in effect, we are referring to location information. Location information is tied
           to a product, a party, or an account—it does not have an independent existence. There are,
           of course, cases where location does exist independently, but those situations seem to be less
           common. Another interesting facet of location is that it can be described in many different
           ways (by postal address, by latitude and longitude, by geopolitical boundaries)—we need a
           particular context in order to define what we mean. A location can be a sales territory, a city,
           a campus with many buildings, a store, or even a spot on a shelf in an aisle within a store.
           For these reasons, we will treat location as a subordinate domain of master data.
           Figure 1.7 shows how the three primary domains of party, product, and account overlap.
           These areas of overlap are particularly interesting, because they indicate fundamental

                                                              How

                                                             Account
                                                            (Financial
                                                         account, loyalty
                                                              points,
                                                           agreement,
                                                             contract)



                                                             Where
                                                                             Party
                                           Product                     (Individual and
                                        (SKU, bundle,                     customer,
                                        part, service,                     supplier,
                                           assets)                        employee,
                                                                         organization,
                                                                       partner, citizen)


                                                What                        Who
           Figure 1.7 Domains of Master Data.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 15




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                                   15



           relationships between the domains. For example, when we define a product, we often need
           to specify the party that supplies that product and the location(s) in which the product may
           be sold. Explicitly capturing these relationships within the same environment allows us to
           address business questions that may be otherwise difficult to resolve. Building on the previ-
           ous example, if we record the party that supplies a product as well as the parties that we sell
           products to, then we can determine which of our suppliers are also our customers.
           Understanding the full set of linkages that an organization has with a partner can be valu-
           able in all aspects of working with that partner—from establishing mutually beneficial
           agreements to ensuring an appropriate level of support. Indeed, perhaps the key benefit of
           supporting multiple domains of master data within the same system is that it clarifies these
           cross-domain relationships.
           Master data domains can be made specific to a particular industry through the application
           of industry standards or widely accepted industry models.3 Typically, standards and models
           can be used to drive not just the definition of the data model within an MDM Solution but
           the services that work with the master data as well. In particular, use of standards and mod-
           els aligns the services exposed by an MDM Solution with accepted industry-specific defini-
           tions, which reduces the cost of integration.
           Gaining agreement on the definition of an MDM domain can be challenging when differ-
           ent stakeholders within an organization have different requirements or look at the same
           requirements from different points of view. If well-accepted industry models or standards
           exist, they can serve as a foundation for further customization, eliminating the need to labo-
           riously gain agreement on every term or service definition. Table 1.1 provides a list of some
           of the standards and models that are available within a range of industries. Some of these
           standards and models could be used to guide the definition of data structures and access
           services for MDM domains.4
           In summary, an MDM System supports one or more domains of master data. The
           domains provided are often industry-neutral but can be subsequently tailored (and/or
           mapped) to different industry standards or models. The domain definitions can be further
           customized during the design and implementation of an MDM Solution for a specific
           environment.

           1.3.2 Methods of Use
           As we look at the roles that master data plays within an organization, we find three key
           methods or patterns of use: Collaborative Authoring, Operational, and Analytical, shown
           in Figure 1.8. The simplest way to think about these methods of use is to consider who will
           be the primary consumers of the master data. Under the Collaborative Authoring5 pattern,




           3. Examples of industry models can be found in Appendix B.
           4. The Solution Blueprints described in Chapters 6, 7, and 8 describe how several of these standards
           and models can be leveraged within an MDM Solution.
           5. Note: We will sometimes just use the term Collaborative to mean Collaborative Authoring.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08    12:25 PM    Page 16




           16                                                    Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           Table 1.1 Some Industry Standards and Models

                               Standard
             Industry          or Industry Model              Web Resource

             Banking           IBM Information                www-306.ibm.com/software/data/ips/
                               FrameWork (IFW)                products/industrymodels/

                               Interactive Financial          www.ifxforum.org
                               eXchange (IFX)

             Insurance         IBM Insurance Application      www-306.ibm.com/software/data/ips/
                               Architecture (IAA)             products/industrymodels/

                               Association for Cooperative    www.acord.org
                               Operations Research and
                               Development (ACORD)

             Telecoms          Shared Information/Data        www.tmforum.org
                               Model (SID)

                               IBM Telecommunications         http://www-306.ibm.com/software/data/
                               Data Warehouse                 ips/products/industrymodels/telecomm.html

             Retail            Association for Retail Tech-   www.nrf-arts.org
                               nology Standards (ARTS)

                               IBM Retail Data                http://www-306.ibm.com/software/data/
                               Warehouse                      ips/products/industrymodels/retail.html

             Healthcare        Health Level 7 (HL7)           www.hl7.org



           the MDM System coordinates a group of users and systems in order to reach agreement on
           a set of master data. Under the Operational pattern, the MDM System participates in the
           operational transactions and business processes of the enterprise, interacting with other
           application systems and people. Finally, under the Analytical pattern, the MDM System is a
           source of authoritative information for downstream analytical systems, and sometimes is a
           source of insight itself.
           A particular element of master data such as a product or an account may be initially authored
           using a collaborative style, managed operationally through the operational style, and then
           published to other operational and analytical systems. Because MDM Systems may be optimized
           to one or more of the methods of use, more than one MDM System may be needed to sup-
           port the full breadth of usage. Where multiple MDM Systems are used to support multiple
           usage patterns, careful attention to the integration, management, and governance of the
           combined system is required to ensure that the master data of the combined system is con-
           sistent and authoritative.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08         12:25 PM   Page 17




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                             17




                              on
                                al                                                    lla
                          Op                                                        Co
                            era                                                        bo
                                                                                            ra t
                               ti
                                                                                             ive

                                                            Party




                                                                          Account
                                                   Product


                                                                    Location




                                                             Analytical

           Figure 1.8     Multiple MDM domains and multiple methods of use.



           It is important to note that the style of usage is completely independent from the domain
           of information managed. Although Product Information Management systems are often
           associated with a Collaborative Authoring style of use, and Customer Data Integration sys-
           tems are often associated with an Operational usage style, this alignment is not necessary or
           exclusive. There are an increasing number of cases where organizations seek an operational
           usage of product information as well as a range of use cases for collaborative authoring of
           customer information.

           1.3.2.1     Collaborative MDM
           Collaborative MDM deals with the processes supporting collaborative authoring of master
           data, including the creation, definition, augmentation, and approval of master data. Collab-
           orative MDM is about achieving agreement on a complex topic among a group of people.
           The process of getting to agreement is often encapsulated in a workflow that may incorpo-
           rate both automated and manual tasks, both of which are supported by collaborative
           capabilities. Information about the master data being processed is passed from task to task
           within the workflow and is governed throughout its lifecycle.
           As a consequence of the complexity of product development and management, PIM systems
           commonly support a collaborative style of usage. Perhaps the most common process
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08     12:25 PM     Page 18




           18                                                     Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management




                                                                                    Marketing
                                                                                    Manager
                                                                                      Define
                                                                                    Marketing
                                                                                    Properties


                                               Product
                                              Specialist
                                                                                      Space              Business
                                                                                     Manager             Manager
              Receive                        Classify Item                                               Approve
                              Create Draft                   Define Item           Assign Item to
            Notification                         and                                                      Product
                                 Item                        Properties              Locations
            of New Item                      Assign SKU                                                  Definition




                                                                                     Finance
                                                                                     Manager

                                                                                   Define Finance
                                                                                     Properties


           Figure 1.9 Simplified New Product Introduction process.



           implemented by PIM systems is the process for introducing a new product to the market.
           An in-depth discussion on NPI can be found in Chapter 6. A typical NPI process is shown
           in Figure 1.9.
           Here we can see that information about new products (or items) is received from one or more
           external sources and then incrementally extended, augmented, validated, and approved by a
           number of different end users with different user roles and responsibilities.6
           The collaborative steps within a New Product Introduction process are used to define the
           kinds of properties that describe the product. A given product will be described by dozens,
           and often hundreds, of properties depending on how the product is classified and where it is
           sold. In the New Product Introduction process, product specialists, buyers, and other stake-
           holders describe all of the characteristics of the product that are necessary to bring it to mar-
           ket. These characteristics may include product specifications, marketing information,
           ingredients, safety information, recycling information, cost, and so on. Large retailers may
           have more than a million products that they sell, spanning categories from food to clothing
           to furniture to appliances. The kinds of properties that are relevant to a product depend on
           the kind of product it is. For clothing, examples include color, size, and material; for electronic
           appliances, examples might be specifications, color, warranty, and so on. The Collaborative
           MDM System helps users to capture all of the different relevant properties of the product,


           6. Appendix A provides an in-depth discussion of the user roles in an MDM environment.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 19




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                              19



           validate the properties, categorize the product, and coordinate the approval of the product.
           As buyers and product specialists come up with new ways to describe products, new proper-
           ties are created to hold these new descriptions. In retail environments, the structure of the
           product information is constantly evolving.
           Collaboration is a common pattern and can be found beyond the PIM domain. Indeed, we
           find that many of the tasks performed by a product specialist in the PIM environment are also
           performed in the management of Customer and Account information. A key role that spans
           all domains of master data is that of data steward. A data steward looks after the quality and
           management of the data. For example, when we believe that two or more party records in a
           data store may really refer to the same individual, data stewards may need to manually com-
           bine information from the party records together and then validate the proposed changes
           with supervisors. Similarly, where questions requiring human intervention arise about the
           accuracy of information, a request for attention may be made visible to all data stewards who
           are capable of handling the issue, which can result in a collaborative pattern to resolve data
           quality issues.
           The Collaborative style of usage requires a core set of capabilities within the MDM environ-
           ment. A combination of workflow, task management, and state management are needed to
           guide and coordinate the collaborative tasks and the master data being collaborating on.
           Workflow controls the execution of a sequence of tasks by people and automated processes.
           Task management prioritizes and displays pending work for individuals to perform, while
           state management helps us to model and then enforce the lifecycle of the master data.
           Because many concurrent users and workflows may be executing in parallel, the integrity
           of the master data needs to be protected with a check-in/check-out or similar locking
           technique. To improve efficiency, master data records are often processed in batches within
           the same workflow, which results in the concept of a “workbasket” of master data records
           that is passed from task to task within the workflow. Tasks within a workflow may be auto-
           mated actions (such as import, export, or data validation) or manual tasks that allow users
           to work directly with the master data. Typically, this workflow will involve business users
           and data stewards, a process that, in turn, has implications for the design of the UIs (user
           interfaces) for collaborative authoring of master data. User interfaces must be both effi-
           cient and comfortable to use, and must rely on a set of underlying services that create,
           query, update, and delete the master data itself, the relationships between the master data,
           and other related information, such as lookup tables. Tooling to support the flexible cre-
           ation and customization of collaborative workflows and even user screens may also be
           provided.
           Finally, a common set of services are typically also provided to enforce security and privacy,
           and to support administration, validation, and import/export of master data. These services
           are needed across all kinds of MDM Systems.


           1.3.2.2     Operational MDM
           In the Operational style of MDM, the MDM server acts as an Online-Transaction Processing
           (OLTP) system that responds to requests from multiple applications and users. Operational MDM
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 20




           20                                                 Chapter 1    •   Introducing Master Data Management




             RECORD                                                                                       OFFER
            Arrangement                                                                                Arrangement
              Request
                           ANALYZE                                                       FORECAST
                           Customer                                                      Arrangement
                          Relationship                                                       Risk
                                          ANALYZE       APPLY               APPLY
                                         Arrangement    Product              Credit
                                           Request       Policy           Rating Scale

           Figure 1.10 Example New Account Opening process.




           focuses on providing stateless services in a high-performance environment. These stateless
           services can be invoked from an enterprise business process or directly from a business
           application or user interface. Operational MDM services are often designed to fit within a
           Service-Oriented Architecture as well as in traditional environments. Integration of an
           Operational MDM System with existing systems calls for the support of a wide variety of
           communications styles and protocols, including synchronous and asynchronous styles,
           global transactions, and one-way communications.
           A good example of Operational MDM usage is a New Account Opening business process.
           In this process, a person or organization wants to open a new account—perhaps a bank
           account, a cable TV account, or any other kind of account. As shown in Figure 1.10,
           MDM services are invoked to check what information about the customer is already
           known and to determine if product policy is being complied with before an offer of a
           new account is made. If the customer isn’t already known, then the new customer is
           added to the MDM System and a new account is created (presuming that the new customer
           meets the appropriate requirements). Each of the tasks within this workflow is imple-
           mented by a service, and many of these services are implemented by an Operational
           MDM System.
           Operational MDM is also commonly used in the PIM domain. For retailers, after products
           have been defined, the approved product information may be published to an operational
           MDM System that then serves as a hub of MDM information that interacts with merchan-
           dising, distribution, or e-commerce applications. As such applications become more open
           and able to interact within an SOA environment, the need for such an operational MDM
           hub increases.
           A wide range of capabilities is required for the Operational usage style. There can be hundreds
           of services that provide access and management of MDM data. Specific sets of services for
           each kind of MDM object managed provide for creation, reading, updating, and deletion of
           the MDM objects. Services are also provided to relate, group, and organize MDM objects. As
           with the Collaborative style of MDM, services are also needed for cleansing and validation
           of the data, for detection and processing of duplicates, and for managing the security and
           privacy of the information.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 21




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                               21



           1.3.2.3 Analytical MDM
           Analytical MDM is about the intersection between Business Intelligence (BI) and MDM. BI
           is a broad field that includes business reporting, data warehouses, data marts, data mining,
           scoring, and many other fields. To be useful, all forms of BI require meaningful, trusted data.
           Increasingly, analytical systems are also transitioning from purely decision support to more
           operational involvement. As BI systems have begun to take on this broader role, the rela-
           tionship between MDM Systems and Analytical systems has also begun to change.
           There are three primary intersections between MDM and BI.

                    • MDM as a trusted data source: A key role of an MDM System is to be a provider of
                      clean and consistent data to BI systems.
                    • Analytics on MDM data: MDM Systems themselves may integrate reporting and
                      analytics in support of providing insight over the data managed within the MDM
                      System.
                    • Analytics as a key function of an MDM System: Specialized kinds of analytics,
                      such as identity resolution, may be a key feature of some MDM Systems.

           One of the common drivers for clean and consistent master data is the need to improve the
           quality of decision making. Using an MDM System to feed downstream BI systems is an
           important and common pattern. The data that drives a BI system must be of a high quality
           if the results of the analytical processing are to be trusted. For this reason, MDM Systems are
           often a key source of information to data warehouses, data marts, Online Analytical Processing
           (OLAP) cubes, and other BI structures. The common data models for data warehouses use
           what are called star schemas or snowflake schemas to represent the relationship between
           the facts to be analyzed and the dimensions by which the analysis is done.7 For example, a
           business analyst in a retail environment would be interested in understanding the number
           or value of sales by product or perhaps by manufacturer. Here, the sales transaction data is
           stored in fact tables. Product and manufacturer represent dimensions of the analysis. We can
           observe that often master data domains align with dimensions within an analytical envi-
           ronment, which makes the MDM System a natural source of data for BI systems.
           The insight gained from a data warehouse or OLAP cube may also be fed back into the MDM
           System. For example, in the travel and entertainment industry, some companies build analyt-
           ical models that can project the likely net lifetime revenue potential of a customer. To build
           these projections, they will source the master data from an MDM System and transactional
           details from other systems. After the revenue potential is computed, the MDM System is
           updated to reflect this information, which may now be used as part of each customer’s profile.
           Reservation systems can then use this profile to tailor offers specifically to each customer.8
           Insight may also be derived from data maintained by the MDM System itself. An MDM
           System contains all of the information needed to report on key performance indicators such



           7. An overview of Data Warehousing can be found in [1].
           8. More details on MDM and Data Warehouse integration may be found in Chapters 5 and 8.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM    Page 22




           22                                                  Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           as the number of new customers per week, the number of new accounts per day, or the aver-
           age time to introduce a new product. Reporting and dashboarding tools can operate directly
           over the master data to provide these kinds of domain-specific insights. Some MDM Systems
           also incorporate a combination of rules and event subsystems that allow interesting events
           to be detected and actions to be taken based on these events as they happen. For example,
           if a customer changes addresses five times in three months, that may trigger an alert that
           notifies event subscribers to contact the customer to validate his or her address on a peri-
           odic basis. Analytics may also be executed as an MDM transaction is taking place, using
           architected integration points that allow external functions to be invoked as part of an
           MDM service. A good example is the use of scoring functions to predict the likelihood of a
           customer canceling accounts at an institution. Such scoring functions can be developed by
           gaining a deep understanding of an issue, such as customer retention, through data mining
           and building a model of recurring customer retention patterns based on the combination of
           customer and transaction data maintained within a data warehouse. While it is time-
           consuming to develop and validate such a model, the scoring model that results can be effi-
           ciently executed as part of an MDM service. This kind of analytics is called in-line analytics
           or operational analytics and is an important new way in which MDM Systems can work
           together with BI systems to provide additional value to an enterprise.
           The final kind of MDM analytics is where the MDM System provides some key analytic capa-
           bilities. One particular kind of insight that can be derived from the information within an
           MDM System is the discovery of both obvious and non-obvious relationships between the
           master entities managed. An obvious kind of relationship would be one that discovered
           households based on a set of rules around names, addresses, and other common information.
           A non-obvious kind of relationship might find relationships between people or organiza-
           tions by looking for shared fragments of information, such as a common phone number, in
           an effort to determine that people may be roommates. Searching for non-obvious relation-
           ships may also require rules that look for combinations of potentially obfuscated informa-
           tion—for example, transposed Social Security numbers and phone numbers—to identify
           potential relationships where people may be trying to hide their identities. Identity resolu-
           tion and relationship discovery are important for both looking for questionable dealings9
           and understanding a social network that a person is part of—and therefore are important for
           predicting the overall value of a person’s influence.
           The analytical style of usage encompasses a variety of capabilities. Populating external ana-
           lytical environments such as data warehouses with data from an MDM System requires
           information integration tools to efficiently transfer and transform information from the
           MDM System into the star or snowflake schemas needed by the data warehouse. Integration
           with reporting tools is required in order to display key performance indicators and how they
           change over time. Rules, scoring, and event management are important capabilities for in-
           line analytics within the MDM environment.




            9. More details on MDM-Analytical integration can be found in Chapters 3, 5, and 8. A blueprint
           describing the use of MDM in threat and fraud scenarios can be found in Chapter 7.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 23




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                                23



           In practice, MDM usage will often cross the boundaries between collaborative, operational,
           and analytical usage. For example, collaborative MDM processes can be very useful in man-
           aging the augmentation of complex operational structures such as organizational hierar-
           chies. On the other hand, there is valuable analytical information that can be gathered
           around the nature of the collaborative processes. An MDM implementation may start with
           the usage style that is most important to achieving their business need and then later extend
           the environment to incorporate additional styles to meet further requirements.

           1.3.3 System of Record vs. System of Reference
           The goal of an MDM System is to provide authoritative master data to an enterprise. Ideally,
           a single copy of key master data would be managed by an MDM System—all applications
           that needed master data would be serviced by this system, and all updates to master data
           would be made through the MDM System. The master data in the ideal MDM implementa-
           tion can be considered a system of record. That is, the data managed by the MDM System
           is the best source of truth. If applications want to be sure that they are getting the most cur-
           rent and highest-quality information, then they consult this source of truth. Achieving this
           ideal MDM System can be difficult, at best, due to several confounding factors, such as:
                    • The complexity and investment in the existing IT environment
                    • Master data locked into packaged applications
                    • Requirements for performance, availability, and scalability in a complex and
                      geographically distributed world
                    • Legal constraints that limit the movement of data across geopolitical boundaries
           All of these factors contribute to the need for copies of master data—sometimes partial sub-
           sets, sometimes completely redundant replicas. These copies can be well-managed, integrated,
           and synchronized extensions of an MDM System. When the replica of the master data is
           known to be synchronized with the system of record—in a managed way that maintains the
           quality and integrity of the data within both the replica and the system of record—we can call
           this copy a system of reference. Although it is synchronized with the system of record, it may
           not always be completely current. Changes to the system of record are often batched together
           and then applied to the systems of reference on a periodic basis. In some cases, the copy may
           represent a special-purpose MDM implementation that has been specifically tuned to the
           needs of a particular style of usage. A system of reference is a source of authoritative master
           data because it is managed and synchronized with the system of record. It can therefore be
           used as a trusted source of master data by other applications and other systems.
           An MDM system of reference is best used as a read-only source of information, with all of the
           updates going through the system of record. Figure 1.11 illustrates a simple environment where
           the system of record aggregates master information from multiple sources, is responsible for
           cleansing and managing the data, and then provides this data to both managed systems of ref-
           erence as well as directly to other consumers of the managed information. We use the terms
           Managed and Unmanaged to define the scope of the overall MDM environment. In a man-
           aged environment, each source should only feed one system, and each consumer should receive
           information from only one system. Within the managed environment, we can track the move-
           ment of information between systems and audit the transactions that use the system.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 24




           24                                                      Chapter 1    •   Introducing Master Data Management



                          Unknown
                           Unmanaged
                                           Source 1     Source 2               Source N


                               Managed
                                                 MDM System of Record                Managed 1

                                                                                     Managed 2

                                    MDM System of Reference
                                                                                    Managed N




                                 Consumer 1      Consumer 2             Consumer N


           Figure 1.11 System of Record vs. System of Reference.



           It is important to note that the system of record may, in fact, be made up of multiple phys-
           ical subsystems—but this arrangement should be transparent to all of the other systems and
           people that interact with it. For example, if legal requirements in a country dictate that per-
           sonal information may not leave the country, then different MDM Systems may be required.
           In this situation, the different MDM Systems can be logically brought together through the
           technique of federation.10 The fact that there is more than one MDM System can be hidden
           from the consumers. Consumers issue requests to the MDM System as a whole and receive
           a response without having to know (or care) which particular system responded.


           1.3.4 Consistency of Data
           When data is replicated in an environment, questions of consistency among the replicas
           immediately arise. For example, as we discussed in the previous section, a system of refer-
           ence may not always be completely consistent with a system of record. It is useful to think
           about two basic approaches towards consistency. The first we can call Absolute Consistency,
           and the second we can call Convergent Consistency. In a distributed system with absolute
           consistency, information will be identical among all replicas at all times that the systems are
           available (for simplicity, let’s ignore the case where a system is recovering after a failure). In
           a distributed environment, we commonly achieve absolute consistency by following a two-
           phase commit transaction protocol that is provided in most distributed databases, messag-
           ing systems, and transaction systems. The basic idea is that we can define a unit of work
           containing several actions that must either all complete or all fail. We can use this approach
           to write applications that update multiple databases and guarantee that either all of the


           10. The technique of federation brings data from different systems at need. A discussion of federation
           at the database level can be found in [2].
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 25




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                                25



           updates worked or they all failed. We can also use this approach to concurrently update mas-
           ter data records in multiple repositories simultaneously, and with the two-phase commit
           transaction protocol, either all of these databases will be updated or none of them will be.
           In either case, all of the databases contain the same information and are therefore absolutely
           consistent. Two-phase commit can be costly from a performance, complexity, and avail-
           ability point of view. For example, if we have three systems that all normally participate in
           a transaction, all three of the systems must be available for the transaction to complete
           successfully—in other words, if any one of the systems is not available, then none of the
           systems can be updated. So while two-phase commit is an important and widely used
           technique, it is not always the right approach. When we balance the needs for performance,
           availability, and consistency, we find that there are a range of options for each. Providing an
           absolute consistency can decrease performance and availability. There are many excellent
           books devoted to transaction processing that explore this topic further—see [3] as an example.
           Convergent consistency is an alternative way to think about providing consistency across sys-
           tems. The basic idea of convergent consistency is that if we have a distributed set of systems
           that we want to keep synchronized, whenever we apply an update to one system, that update
           gets forwarded to all of the other systems. There are a variety of ways to do this—we could do
           this as each change occurs (which can result in a lot of communications traffic), or we could
           accumulate a set of changes and process them a batch at a time. Passing along the changes as
           they happen allows the receiving systems to be only a few updates behind the system that was
           directly updated—but it can be costly in terms of resources. Processing a batch at a time means
           that the changes will be delayed in getting to the other systems, but fewer resources will be
           consumed. With either approach, if new updates stop arriving, all of the systems will eventu-
           ally have the same data. That is, the information in the different systems converge, and all of
           the systems become consistent with one another. The benefit of following a convergent con-
           sistency strategy is that the systems can operate independently of each other so that process-
           ing of forwarded updates can happen at the convenience of the recipient. This fact means that
           we can achieve higher availability and potentially higher performance at the expense of con-
           sistency. The lag-time for changes to propagate across all of the systems can be tuned by
           increasing or decreasing the rate at which the changes are forwarded. One other consideration
           is that if new updates are being applied to multiple systems concurrently, significant care must
           be taken to prevent anomalous behaviors such as update conflicts.
           Absolute and convergent consistency are both important strategies for managing replicated
           data across multiple systems. Absolute consistency is not always technically possible or prag-
           matic. Many systems do not expose interfaces that support two-phase commit. Convergent
           consistency can be quite pragmatic and can yield better performance and availability, but it
           also has its share of complexity. System architects implementing MDM Systems need to be
           well versed in these techniques to properly select the right combinations of techniques that
           will balance the requirements and constraints dictated by an implementation.


           1.3.5 MDM Implementation Styles
           MDM Systems are implemented to improve the quality of master data and to provide con-
           sistent, managed use of this information in what is often a complex and somewhat tangled
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08   12:25 PM   Page 26




           26                                                   Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           environment. There are a variety of ways to support these requirements in ways that accom-
           modate a range of methods of use (as described earlier) and implementation requirements.
           Implementation requirements can dictate:
                    • If the MDM System is to be used as a system of record or a system of reference
                    • If the system is to support operational environments, decision support environ-
                      ments, or both
                    • If it is important for the MDM System to push clean data back into existing systems
                    • If the system is to be part of an SOA fabric
                    • If geographic distribution is required
           Different combinations of implementation and usage requirements have led to the evolu-
           tion of a number of MDM implementation styles. Hybrid implementations that combine
           multiple implementation styles are common. Because some styles are simpler than others,
           organizations may start with a simpler implementation style that addresses the most urgent
           business needs and then subsequently address additional business needs by extending the
           implementation to enable additional styles.
           In this section, we introduce four common implementation styles:11
                    • Consolidation Implementation Style
                    • Registry Implementation Style
                    • Coexistence Implementation Style
                    • Transactional Hub Implementation Style
           As the styles progress from Consolidation Implementation Style to Transactional Hub
           Implementation Style, they provide increasing functionality and also tend to require more
           sophisticated deployments.

           1.3.5.1 Consolidation Implementation Style
           The consolidation implementation style brings together master data from a variety of exist-
           ing systems, both databases and application systems, into a single managed MDM hub.
           Along the way, the data is transformed, cleansed, matched, and integrated in order to pro-
           vide a complete golden record for one or more master data domains. This golden record
           serves as a trusted source to downstream systems for reporting and analytics, or as a system
           of reference to other operational applications. Changes to the data primarily come in from
           the systems that feed it; this is a read-only system. Figure 1.12 illustrates the basic consoli-
           dation style, with reads and writes going directly against the existing systems and the MDM
           System (in the middle) receiving updates from these existing systems. The integrated and
           cleansed information is then distributed to downstream systems (such as data warehouses)
           that use, but don’t update, the master data.
           There is a strong similarity between the consolidation implementation style and an opera-
           tional data store (ODS). An ODS is also an aggregation point and staging area for analytical
           systems such as data warehouses—see [1,4] for more details. The distinction between them

           11. A detailed discussion on the capabilities of these styles may be found in Chapter 3. Chapter 5
           describes the implementation patterns associated with these implementation styles.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 27




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                             27




                                                        R          R




                                                    W                       W
                                               R                        R




                                                        Consolidation

           Figure 1.12 Consolidation Implementation Style.




           lies in the set of platform capabilities that an MDM System offers, which go beyond the stor-
           age and management of data that an ODS provides. An operational data store is a database
           that is used in a particular way for a particular purpose, while an MDM System provides
           access, governance, and stewardship services to retrieve and manage the master data and to
           support data stewards as they investigate and resolve potential data quality issues.
           Implementing the consolidation style is a natural early phase in the multiphase roll-out of
           an MDM System. A consolidation style MDM system serves as a valuable resource for ana-
           lytical applications and at the same time provides a foundation for the coexistence and
           transactional hub implementation styles.
           The drawbacks of the consolidation style mirror its advantages. Because it is fed by upstream
           systems, it does not always contain the most current information. If batch imports are per-
           formed only once a day, then the currency requirements for a decision support system
           would likely be met—but those for a downstream operational system may not be. Because
           the consolidation style represents a read-only system, all of the information about a master
           data object must already be present in the systems that feed the MDM System. Thus, if addi-
           tional information needs to be collected to address new business needs, one or more of the
           existing source applications need to be changed as well as the MDM System—this lack of
           flexibility is addressed by the coexistence and transactional hub implementation styles.

           1.3.5.2 Registry Implementation Style
           The registry implementation style (as shown in Figure 1.13) can be useful for providing a
           read-only source of master data as a reference to downstream systems with a minimum of
           data redundancy. In the figure, the two outside systems are existing sources of master data.
           The MDM System in the middle holds the minimum amount of information required to
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08    12:25 PM    Page 28




           28                                                         Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management




                                                                  R



                                                      W                           W
                                                  R                        R




                                                           Registry

           Figure 1.13 Registry Implementation Style.


           uniquely identify a master data record; it also provides cross-references to detailed informa-
           tion that is managed within other systems and databases. The registry is able to clean and
           match just this identifying information and assumes that the source systems are able to ade-
           quately manage the quality of their own data. A registry style of MDM implementation
           serves as a read-only system of reference to other applications.
           Queries against the registry style MDM System dynamically assemble the required informa-
           tion in two steps. First, the identifying information is looked up within the MDM System.
           Then, using that identity and the cross-reference information, relevant pieces of information
           are retrieved from other source systems. Figure 1.14 shows a simple example where the
           MDM System holds enough master data to uniquely identify a customer (in this case, the
           Name, TaxID, and Primary address information) and then provides cross-references to addi-
           tional customer information stored in System A and System B. When a service request for


             Registry Federation
                                                                      System A

                  Name, TaxID, Primary Address, NameID1, Privacy Preferences

                                                                                                           System B

                                                           Name, TaxID, Primary Address, NameID2, Account




                MDM Registry

                 Name, TaxID, Primary Address    NameID1 System A           NameID2 System B



                                                  getCustInfo()

           Figure 1.14 MDM Registry Federation.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 29




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                               29



           customer information is received (getCustInfo( )), the MDM System looks up the information
           that it keeps locally, as well as the cross-references, to return the additional information
           from Systems A and B. The MDM System brings together the information desired as it is
           needed—through federation. Federation can be done at the database layer or by dynamically
           invoking services to retrieve the needed data in each of the source systems.
           Federation has several advantages. Because the majority of information remains in the
           source systems and is fetched when needed, the information returned is always current. This
           style of MDM System is therefore suitable to meet transactional inquiry needs in an opera-
           tional environment. The registry implementation style can also be useful in complex orga-
           nizational environments where one group may not be able to provide all of its data to
           another. The registry style can be relatively quick to implement, because responsibility for
           most of the data remains within the source systems.
           There is, however, a corresponding set of issues with this implementation style. One funda-
           mental issue is that a registry implementation is not useful in remediating quality issues that
           go beyond basic identity. A registry implementation can only manage the quality of the data
           that it holds—so while it can match and cleanse the core identifying data, it cannot, in
           itself, provide a completely standardized and cleansed view of the master data. Because the
           complexities of updating federated information lead most registry style implementations to
           be read-only, the cleansed identifying information is not typically sent back to the source
           systems. If the data in the sources systems is clean, the composite view served by the MDM
           System will also be clean. Thus, a registry implementation can act as an authoritative source
           of master data for the key identifying information that it maintains.
           A registry implementation style is also more sensitive to the availability and performance of
           the existing systems. If one of the source systems slows down or fails, the MDM System will
           be directly affected. Similarly, the registry style also requires strong governance practices
           between the MDM System and the source systems, because a unilateral change in a source
           system could immediately cause problems for users of the MDM System. For example, in the
           scenario shown in Figure 1.14, suppose a change is made in the structure of the Privacy
           Preferences information in System A. If this change occurs without making corresponding
           changes in the MDM System, then a request such as getCustInfo( ) will likely cause the MDM
           system to fail with an internal error because of the assumptions it makes about the structure
           of the data it federates.

           1.3.5.3 Coexistence Implementation Style
           The coexistence style of MDM implementation involves master data that may be authored
           and stored in numerous locations and that includes a physically instantiated golden record
           in the MDM System that is synchronized with source systems. The golden record is con-
           structed in the same manner as the consolidation style, typically through batch imports, and
           can be both queried and updated within the MDM System. Updates to the master data can
           be fed back to source systems as well as published to downstream systems. In a coexistence
           style, the MDM System can interact with other applications or users, as shown in Figure 1.15.
           An MDM System implemented in the coexistence style is not a system of record, because it
           is not the single place where master data is authored and updated. It is a key participant in
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM     Page 30




           30                                                        Chapter 1      •   Introducing Master Data Management




                                                                 W
                                                            R



                                                      W                         W
                                                                        R
                                              R




                                                          Coexistence

           Figure 1.15 Coexistence Implementation Style.

           a loosely distributed environment that can serve as an authoritative source of master data
           to other applications and systems. Because the master data is physically instantiated within
           the system, the quality of the data can be managed as the data is imported into the system.
           If the MDM System does a bidirectional synchronization with source systems, care must be
           taken to avoid update cycles where changes from one system conflict with changes from
           another—these cycles can be through a combination of automated and manual conflict
           detection and resolution.
           The advantage of the coexistence style is that it can provide a full set of MDM capabilities
           without causing significant change in the existing environment. The disadvantage is that
           because it is not the only place where master data may be authored or changed, it is not
           always up to date. As with the consolidation style, the coexistence style is an excellent sys-
           tem of reference but is not a system of record.

           1.3.5.4 Transactional Hub Implementation Style
           A transactional hub implementation style is a centralized, complete set of master data for one
           or more domains (see Figure 1.16). It is a system of record, serving as the single version of truth


                                                                W
                                                           R




                                                  R                         R




                                                          Transaction

           Figure 1.16 Transactional Hub Implementation Style.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 31




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                                  31



           for the master data it manages. A transactional hub is part of the operational fabric of an IT
           environment, receiving and responding to requests in a timely manner. This style often
           evolves from the consolidation and coexistence implementations. The fundamental difference
           is the change from a system of reference to a system of record. As a system of record, updates
           to master data happen directly to this system using the services provided by the hub. As update
           transactions take place, the master data is cleansed, matched, and augmented in order to
           maintain the quality of the master data. After updates are accepted, the system distributes
           these changes to interested applications and users. Changes can be distributed as they happen
           via messaging, or the changes can be aggregated and distributed as a batch.
           Sometimes data extensions are needed in the MDM System to accommodate information
           that is not already stored in the source systems. For example, in the product domain, a food
           retailer might find that consumers are interested in knowing the distance that food has trav-
           eled to a store (there is a growing interest in purchasing locally grown products). Rather than
           augment all of the source systems, the MDM System would be extended to support this new
           information and would become the only place where such information is managed.
           Governance and security are key aspects of all MDM implementation styles. Access to the mas-
           ter data must be tightly controlled and audited. Auditing can be used to track both queries and
           changes to the data. Visibility of the information may be controlled to the attribute value level
           to ensure that the right people and applications are restricted to seeing the right information in
           the right context. Because a transactional hub implementation is a system of record, security
           and governance play an especially critical role in maintaining the integrity of the master data.
           The benefits of a transactional hub implementation are significant. As the system of record,
           it is the repository of current, clean, authoritative master data providing both access and
           governance. Any of the methods of use can be implemented (collaborative, operational, and
           analytical) to meet the MDM needs of an organization. The primary difficulty in a transac-
           tional hub implementation is achieving the transition from system of reference to system of
           record. As a system of record, all updates should be funneled to the MDM System—this
           means that existing applications, business processes, and perhaps organizational structures
           may need to be altered to use the MDM System. Although potentially costly, the overall
           organization generally benefits as more comprehensive data governance policies are estab-
           lished to manage the master data.
           The primary disadvantages of the transactional hub style are cost and complexity. The
           implementation of a transactional hub often means that existing systems and business
           processes have to be altered when the transactional hub becomes the single point of update
           within the environment. The transition to a transactional hub can be performed incremen-
           tally to minimize disruption. The significant benefits of a transactional hub implementation
           cause it to be the ultimate goal of many MDM projects.
           The different implementation styles introduced in this section are complementary and additive.
           Table 1.2 provides an overview that compares the implementation styles and shows the indi-
           vidual benefits and drawbacks. Different MDM domains may be implemented with different
           styles within the same MDM System. As we have mentioned, it is common for an MDM
           deployment to start with one style, such as the consolidation style, achieve success with that
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08   12:25 PM     Page 32




           32                                                    Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           Table 1.2    MDM Implementation Styles

             Style            Consolidation     Registry           Coexistence            Transactional Hub

             What             Aggregate mas-    Maintain           Manage single          Manage single view
                              ter data into     thin system        view of master         of master data, pro-
                              a common          of record          data, synchro-         viding access via
                              repository for    with links to      nizing changes         services
                              reporting and     more com-          with other
                              reference         plete data         systems
                                                spread across
                                                systems; use-
                                                ful for real-
                                                time reference

             Benefits         Good for          Complete           Assumes exist-         Support new and
                              preparing data    view is            ing systems            existing transac-
                              to feed down-     assembled as       unchanged,             tional applications;
                              stream systems    needed; fast       yet provides           the system of
                                                to build           read-write             record
                                                                   management

             Drawbacks        Read-only; not    Read-mostly;       Not always             May require
                              always current    may be more        consistent with        changes to existing
                              with opera-       complex to         other systems          systems to exploit
                              tional systems    manage

             Methods          Analytical        Operational        Collaborative,         Collaborative,
             of use                                                Operational,           Operational,
                                                                   Analytical             Analytical

             System of        Reference         Reference          Reference              Record


           implementation by publishing authoritative master data to downstream systems, and then
           extend the system with a coexistence style. With the completion of the coexistence phase,
           the MDM System could then be used to support the master data needs of new applications
           while continuing to publish snapshots of master data to downstream systems. Over time,
           the existing systems could be altered to leverage the MDM System, which would become a
           system of record.
           In an MDM System supporting multiple domains of master data such as customer, product,
           and supplier, we may find that the MDM System may appear as a consolidation style for one
           domain, a registry style for the second domain, and a transactional hub for the third domain.

           1.3.6 Categorizing Data
           There are many ways to characterize the different ways to store, manage, and use data.
           Because these characterizations can sometimes be confusing, we put forward a set of working
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 33




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                                  33



           definitions for five key categories of data that we discuss in this book. The five key kinds of
           data that we discuss in this section are:
                    • Metadata
                    • Reference Data
                    • Master Data
                    • Transaction Data
                    • Historical Data
           Each of these categories of data has important roles to play within an enterprise’s informa-
           tion architecture.

           1.3.6.1 Metadata
           The distinctions between metadata, master data, and reference data can be particularly confus-
           ing. In this book, we use the term metadata to refer to descriptive information that is useful for
           people or systems who seek to understand something. Metadata is a very broad topic—there are
           thousands of different kinds of metadata. It is beyond the scope of this book to provide an in-
           depth review of the topic; however, we can describe a few key characteristics.12 Different kinds
           of metadata are defined and used pervasively throughout the software industry because it is use-
           ful to be able to have one kind of information describe another kind of information. A database
           catalog describes the data managed within a database, an XML schema13 describes how an XML
           document that conforms to the schema should be structured, and a WSDL14 file describes how
           a Web service is defined. Metadata is used in both runtimes and in tools. For example, a rela-
           tional database uses metadata (the database catalog) to define the legal data types for a column
           of data, that is, to recognize if a column of information is a primary key and to indicate if val-
           ues in a column of data can be null. Similarly, database tooling uses this same metadata to allow
           database administrators to author and manage these database structures.
           In general, it is considered appropriate to hide the existence of metadata by making the cre-
           ation, management, and use of metadata part of the systems and tools that need to use it. For
           example, many different tools and runtimes are involved in collecting data quality informa-
           tion. This metadata helps users determine how much they should trust the data and systems
           monitored. It is important that the collection and processing of this information be auto-
           mated and transparent to users. If it is something that requires user involvement, then it is
           difficult to guarantee that the collection of the quality metadata has been done in an accu-
           rate and consistent manner. Similarly, most users should not have to explicitly recognize
           when they are using metadata—it should just be a natural part of their work environment.
           Metadata is also stored and managed in a wide variety of ways—from files to specialized
           metadata repositories. Metadata repositories often provide additional benefits by allowing
           different kinds of metadata to be linked together to promote better understanding and to



           12. While the topic of metadata management is very broad, one perspective can be found in [5].
           13. XML Schema (XSD) is a standard that describes how XML may be structured. See [6] for a techni-
           cal overview of XSD.
           14. Web Service Description Language is a standard way to describe Web services. Chapter 2 will
           describe WSDL in more detail.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM     Page 34




           34                                                  Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           support impact analysis and data lineage across a range of different systems. For example,
           because there are many places where data quality information can be collected and
           exploited, it is useful to aggregate this information into a Metadata Repository where the
           information can be combined, related, and accessed by multiple tools and systems. An increas-
           ingly important new kind of metadata repository is a Service Registry and Repository
           (SRR), which specializes in storing information about the services deployed in an SOA envi-
           ronment to support both the operation and management of a services infrastructure.
           Because metadata is data that describes other kinds of information, there is metadata for
           each of the other kinds of data. For example, in the case of master data, the information
           model and services provided by an MDM System are described by a set of metadata that is
           used at both design and execution. Users of the MDM System rely on this metadata to accu-
           rately describe how to interpret and use the master data. When metadata plays such a crit-
           ical role, governance of the metadata is important to users’ confidence that the metadata
           accurately reflects the MDM System.15

           1.3.6.2 Reference Data
           Where metadata often describes the structure, origin, and meaning of things, reference data
           is focused on defining and distributing collections of common values. Reference data
           enables accurate and efficient processing of operational and analytical activities by enabling
           processes to use the same defined values of information for common abbreviations, for
           codes, and for validation. Reference data can be simple lists of common values to be used in
           lookups to ensure the consistent use of a code such as the abbreviation for a state, of prod-
           uct codes that uniquely identify a product, or of transaction codes that specify if a checking
           transaction is a deposit, withdrawal, or transfer. In all of these cases, the reference data rep-
           resents an agreed-upon set of values that should be used throughout an organization.
           Reference data is used throughout an IT system—including the processing of financial trans-
           actions, the analysis of data in a warehouse, and the management of the systems them-
           selves. Wherever we want to guarantee a common value of a simple object, we are using
           reference data. When the values of reference data are able to change during the processing
           of long-running business processes, the management of reference data becomes particularly
           important. For example, when two companies merge, the stock symbol representing them
           may change, and so all in-flight transactions that referenced that stock symbol might fail
           unless the reference data is managed appropriately.
           It is often the case that different applications have different values for the same object. For
           example, one application may refer to a state by its abbreviation, and another application
           may refer to it by its full name (e.g., TX and Texas). A reference data management system
           helps to translate from one set of values to another.
           The management of reference data can happen in multiple places. Many applications have
           their own built-in management for reference data. Dedicated reference data management
           systems are sometimes used for specialized forms of reference data, and in particular for the


           15. Chapter 9 describes governance in detail.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08    12:25 PM     Page 35




           1.3   What Is a Master Data Management System?                                                  35



           reference data used in financial investment transactions. Some MDM Systems can also be
           used to manage reference data in addition to master data.

           1.3.6.3 Master Data
           As we described earlier, master data represents the common business objects that need to be
           agreed on and shared throughout an enterprise. In previous sections, we described the
           domains of master data and the methods of use. Master data is most often managed within
           a specialized MDM System. An MDM System often uses both reference data and metadata
           in its processing. Reference data is used to ensure common and consistent values for attrib-
           utes of master data such as a country name or a color. MDM Systems may either store meta-
           data internally or leverage an external metadata repository to describe the structure of the
           information managed by an MDM System and the services it provides.

           1.3.6.4 Transaction Data
           The business transactions that run an organization produce transaction data. Transaction data
           is the fine-grained information that represents the details of any enterprise—in the commercial
           world this information includes sales transactions, inventory information, and invoices and
           bills. In noncommercial organizations, transaction data might represent passport applications,
           logistics, or court cases. Transaction data describes what is happening in an organization.
           There is often a relationship between transaction data and master data. For example, if a person
           applies for a passport, the application and the processing of the application is transaction infor-
           mation that refers to the master data representing people. The master data contains citizenship
           status, existing passport details, and address information that is needed in the processing of the
           passport request. The processing of the passport itself is handled by other applications.
           Transaction data is usually maintained in databases associated with the applications that drive
           the business and that may also be geographically and organizationally distributed. An organi-
           zation can have a very large number of databases with transaction databases—each holding a
           large amount of data. Transaction data is commonly stored in relational databases according to
           schemas that have been optimized for the combination of query and update patterns required.

           1.3.6.5 Historical Data
           Historical data represents the accumulation of transaction and master data over time. It is
           used for both analytical processing and for regulatory compliance and auditing. Data inte-
           gration tooling is typically used to extract transaction data from the existing application sys-
           tems and load it into an ODS.16 Along the way, it is often transformed to reorganize the data
           by subject, making it easier for the data to be subsequently loaded into a data warehouse for
           reporting and analysis. The ODS may be updated periodically or continuously.
           The historical data loaded into the warehouse is used to gain insight into the functioning of the
           business. Many different kinds of analyses may be performed that can support a wide range of



           16. In some environments, transaction data may be directly loaded into a data warehouse or mart
           instead of, or along with, loading into an ODS. Please see [4] for more discussion.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08     12:25 PM      Page 36




           36                                                        Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           Table 1.3      Key Data Characteristics

                               What Kind of                             How Is It              How Is It
                               Information?        Examples             Used?                  Managed?

             Metadata          Descriptive         XML schemas,         Wide variety of        Metadata reposito-
                               information         database cata-       uses in tooling        ries, by tools,
                                                   logs, WSDL           and runtimes           within runtimes
                                                   descriptions
                                                   Data lineage
                                                   information
                                                   Impact analysis
                                                   Data Quality

             Reference         Commonly            State codes,         Consistent             Multiple strategies
             Data              used values         country codes,       domain of val-
                                                   accounting           ues for com-
                                                   codes                mon objects

             Master Data       Key business        Customer data        Collaborative,         Master Data
                               objects used        Product              Operational,           Management
                               across an           definitions          and Analytical         System
                               organization                             usages

             Transactional     Detailed infor-     Sales receipts,      Operational            Managed by appli-
             Data              mation about        invoices,            transactions in        cation systems
                               individual          inventory            applications
                               business            data                 such as ERP or
                               transactions                             Point of Sales

             Historical        Historical infor-   Data ware-           Used for analy-        Managed by infor-
             Data              mation about        houses, Data         sis, planning,         mation integration
                               both business       Marts, OLAP          and decision           and analytical tools
                               transactions        systems              making
                               and master data


           uses, including basic reporting, dashboards (which show key performance indicators for a spe-
           cific part of the organization, and predictive analytics that can drive operational decisions).
           Historical data is also required to conform to the wide variety of regulations and standards that
           organizations have to comply with. As described throughout many sections of this book,17 the
           regulatory environment drives the need for the management of historical as well as master data.
           Table 1.3 summarizes some of the key characteristics of these different kinds of information.


           17. Including Section 1.4.2.2, Chapter 9, and Appendix C.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08   12:25 PM     Page 37




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                  37




           1.4      Business Benefits of Managed Master Data

           In this section, we take a look at some benefits of using managed master data within an
           MDM System. We will categorize these benefits using the same three principles we discussed
           earlier, that is, that an MDM System:
                    • Provides a consistent understanding and trust of master data entities
                    • Provides mechanisms for consistent use of master data across the organization
                    • Is designed to accommodate and manage change
           In Chapters 6–8, we focus on Solution Blueprints and discuss specific examples of the busi-
           ness benefits of MDM within particular industries and problem areas.


           1.4.1 Consistent Understanding and Trust of Master Data Entities
           One of the main objectives of MDM enablement of an enterprise is to improve the quality
           of the master data elements for the entire business. Here, we look at some different aspects
           of data quality and how MDM can help improve them. With higher quality in the data
           comes a more consistent understanding of master data entities. A broader discussion on data
           quality can be found in Chapter 9.

           1.4.1.1 Accuracy
           “Bad data costs money.” High-quality data is required for sound operations, decision
           making, and planning. Data quality is high if the data correctly represents the real-life
           constructs to which it refers. A traditional development rule states that $1 spent in design
           costs $10 in development and $100 in support [7]. The same applies to data quality:
           Money and effort spent designing for higher data quality early on provides a good return
           on investment when compared to fixing data issues later on. Even this is a fraction of the
           cost of having to deal with data quality issues after they have caused business problems.
           In reality, the $100 measurement is probably not even close to covering the cost of bad
           data. It is estimated by the Data Warehousing Institute that bad data costs U.S. business
           over $600 billion a year [8]. The cost of bad data manifests itself in misplaced shipments,
           product returns, lost marketing opportunities, cost for immediate and near-term system
           repairs, loss of customer trust, loss of customers, and an adverse impact on sales and thus
           market share.
           An MDM Solution needs to have the capabilities to increase the quality and thereby the
           trust in an enterprise’s data compared to the previous state of unmanaged master data.
           Accuracy and completeness of master data, its consistency, its timeliness, its relevance, and
           its validity are the primary contributors to data quality. Accuracy of the data is defined as
           the degree of conformity that a stored piece of information has to its actual value. Because
           of the central positioning of master data within the enterprise, the accuracy of master data,
           in particular, plays a large role in determining the overall data quality. Data that can be val-
           idated while a customer service representative is on the phone with a client can be made
           more accurate than it was before by just updating a “validated-on-date” field. There is no
           change to the actual data, but it is now known to be accurate. Thus, knowing when the data
Dreibelbis_01.qxd    5/7/08   12:25 PM   Page 38




           38                                                 Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           has changed can be at least as important as the change itself. The accuracy of the data is also
           dependent on the context. Data that is sufficiently accurate in one context may not be accu-
           rate enough for another context. For example, a value for “age” may suffice for marketing
           purposes, whereas a legal document may require a date of birth.
           Higher accuracy of data leads to greater efficiencies in business processes that use the data.
           Because of its high degree of reuse throughout the enterprise, this relationship is especially
           true for master data. Major improvements in data accuracy can be achieved through MDM
           functionality such as matching/de-duplication and structures data stewardship.
           Matching and de-duplication refers to taking data from multiple source systems, multiple
           channels, or different interactions and matching them up with existing data in the MDM
           System. Before we begin the matching process, we first validate and standardize the data to
           improve the accuracy of the matching. Matching typically involves creating a candidate list
           of possible matches (also referred to as bucketing) based on the data already in the system
           and then comparing these candidates against the incoming record. By calculating a score for
           each comparison, the matches can be ranked. Typically, a threshold value indicates that cer-
           tain records indeed match, and now these records can be collapsed together into a new com-
           bined record using a set of survivorship rules for each of the attributes of that record.
           Data stewardship involves human interaction to determine match and no-match cases
           where automated processing cannot provide a guaranteed match. This process means man-
           ually assessing the possible matching and de-duplication and subsequently deciding on the
           survivorship of the individual attributes. Data stewardship and the management of data
           quality are discussed further in Chapter 9.
           Data validation is a technique to improve the accuracy and precision of the data by using
           a set of rules to determine whether data is acceptable for a system. Examples are data for-
           mats, range validations, limit checks, and checksums on a data element, or cross-checks on
           multiple data elements. In an MDM context, there may be a validation rule to describe the
           format of a product identifier or to validate that a person can only have, at most, one legal
           name.
           Because the master data in an MDM System often comes from multiple source systems, and
           because the validation rules across those source systems are seldom fully synchronized, the
           MDM System provides its own superset of data validation rules. Data validation can be
           enforced as part of an Extract, Transfer, Load (ETL) process (more on this later) when data is
           loaded into the MDM System. However, data validation also needs to be part of online trans-
           action processing to validate data when MDM services are invoked. Centralizing data vali-
           dation in an MDM System achieves a higher level of data validation for the enterprise as a
           whole.


           1.4.1.2    Completeness
           Completeness of master data is determined by the degree to which it contains all of the rel-
           evant entities, attributes, and values required to represent the real-life master constructs
           such as customers, products, or accounts. Typical questions asked in this regard would be
           whether all of the entities for a given master construct are present, including all of the
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM      Page 39




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                 39



           required attributes for these master data entities and their values. For example, in an MDM
           System managing customer information, are all of the required addresses (shipping, billing,
           or vacation) available? Do they contain the required attributes (address line city, postal/zip
           code) and are the values for these attributes provided?
           Completeness is also dependent on business context—what is required in one context might
           be optional in another. For example, in the case of a life insurance customer, smoking sta-
           tus is a mandatory attribute, and the master data record for this customer would not be com-
           plete without a valid value for this mandatory attribute. The same customer record in the
           context of car insurance can be considered complete without this attribute. An MDM
           System servicing both verticals would need to be flexible enough to support this contextual
           distinction. MDM Systems typically have many different contributors of data within an
           enterprise. This enables an MDM System to maintain a more complete picture of the mas-
           ter data than any of the contributing systems on their own, because each keeps only a sub-
           set of the total data as required for their business purpose. In other cases, the MDM System
           might be the system where the collective data from the source systems is augmented with
           additional information not kept in any of the source systems.

           1.4.1.3 Consistency
           Borrowing from the general notion of consistency in formal logic, we can define master
           data to be consistent when data retrieved through two different locations, channels, appli-
           cations, or services cannot contradict itself. In other words, at no time should the manner
           by which the data is accessed have an effect on the information it represents. In a consis-
           tent environment, the values for data should be the same.
           This might seem obvious, but as we saw in the previous section, the initial scattering of
           unmanaged master data across the enterprise is often natural and more or less unavoidable.
           What is also unavoidable is that the quality of that master data differs from system to sys-
           tem. It is therefore entirely possible that these sources disagree on a particular aspect of a
           master data object. For example, what one system has stored as a billing address might be
           kept as a shipping address in the other. Similarly, the date of birth of a customer in one
           source system may be different from that in another. A billing system might have accurate
           account and address information but would not be the trusted source for date of birth or e-mail
           address, while an online self-service system would have more accurate e-mail information
           but not necessarily the best postal addresses.
           Even when we only focus on a single system, there can be large variations in data quality
           due to variations in the level of data consistency. All of these types of inconsistencies need
           to be addressed by the MDM System, both at the time of deployment and throughout its
           lifecycle. Being centrally positioned within the enterprise, an MDM System is in a unique
           position to improve the consistency of master data for an entire enterprise. Consistency is
           also determined by the level of standardization, normalization, and validation that was per-
           formed on the data. Data standardization ensures that the data adheres to agreed-upon
           guidelines. For example, address standardization determines what an address should look
           like for a specific geography and gives a fixed format based on a postal code look-up. Many
           other elements, such as first and last names, can also be standardized. Standardization
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM    Page 40




           40                                                  Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           greatly improves the ability for computer systems to locate and manipulate data elements.
           Data normalization describes the organization of data elements in related subcomponents.
           This can be thought of in the traditional context of the database modeling technique of nor-
           malization but also on a much smaller scale, for example, parsing a personal name such as
           “MARIA LUZ RODRIGUEZ v. de LUNA” into the correct data structures.
           As we saw earlier in Section 1.3.5, some MDM implementation styles are more prone than
           others to show some level of data inconsistency. In essence, as soon as master data appears
           in multiple places, there is a potential for data inconsistencies. This is true even if these
           sources are managed replicas. Replication technology is very good at being able to keep mul-
           tiple copies synchronized—but there is often some amount of lag between copies as changes
           take place.


           1.4.1.4 Timeliness
           The timeliness of master data is another important factor determining its quality. Master data
           changes relatively slowly compared to other forms of business data. For example, we have
           observed that in financial institutions, customer data changes around three percent per day
           and that contract-related information can change eight percent per day. Address and phone
           numbers for individuals seem to change, on average, every 2.5 years. Product information in
           retail can change quickly as retailers introduce seasonal products into their catalogs.
           These changes often take time to propagate through the enterprise and its systems. With this
           propagation comes a delay between the data being changed and the availability of this change
           to the data consumers—the longer the delay, the greater the potential loss in data quality.
           A typical example of this is a traditional data warehouse where data is extracted from source
           systems, cleansed, de-duplicated, and transformed for use in an analytical context. Because
           many data warehouses are used for off-line decision support, it is common for them to be updated
           on a daily or sometimes weekly basis. Thus, the data is always somewhat out of date with
           respect to the operational systems that feed it. Such warehouses may not be suitable for opera-
           tional usage. An MDM System may take on the task of maintaining this cleansed version of the
           master data on an ongoing basis, while serving as a source for the data warehouse. In this case,
           the MDM System is providing on-line access to this cleansed data.
           Another factor in the timeliness of the data is its freshness. Captured data typically deterio-
           rates by a certain rate because the real life constructs it represents change over time and not
           all these changes make it back into the captured data. For example, on average about 20%
           of all Americans change their address every year.
           Timeliness thus affects both consistency and accuracy. Propagation delay impacts the con-
           sistency of the information across systems, whereas freshness is one indication of how accu-
           rate the data remains.


           1.4.1.5 Relevance
           Data relevance is a measure of the degree to which data satisfies the needs of the consumer.
           It measures how pertinent, connected, or applicable some information is to a given matter.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM      Page 41




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                 41



           What is obvious from this definition is that relevance is also context-sensitive. Master data
           that is relevant in one context or to one user might be irrelevant in another context or to
           another user. If all relevant information is captured for the different consumers of the infor-
           mation, then the information can be considered to be complete.
           For example, the physical dimensions of a grocery item in a product information system are
           relevant to someone in shipping but irrelevant to a translator who works on creating a
           Spanish version of the product catalog. In the description of completeness, we discussed the
           example of a smoker status and its relevance to different lines of business in an insurance
           company. Data relevance determines why and what we measure or collect. To ensure data
           relevance, the “noise” (unnecessary information) factor of the data needs to be reduced.
           In the case of operational data, relevance is usually determined during the definition and
           requirements phase of an MDM project. For example, during this phase of an MDM imple-
           mentation, a gap analysis can be used to determine which relevant data elements need to
           be added to an existing data model. If data from multiple source systems is combined in an
           MDM System, then the relevance of the data elements from a single system to the enterprise
           as a whole needs to be determined.
           The MDM System does not necessarily need to contain the sum of all of the parts. Certain
           pieces of data might be irrelevant from an enterprise point of view. These additional data
           elements may continue to be maintained in the line-of-business systems. Relevance may
           also change over time. As business needs change, what is relevant today may change
           tomorrow. Accommodating these changes is a natural part of the evolution of an MDM
           System.

           1.4.1.6 Trust
           We can trust data when we know that it has met an appropriate set of standards for accu-
           racy, cleanliness, consistency, and timeliness—that is, when we know that data stewards
           manage the data and that the data is protected from unauthorized or unmanaged updates.
           The more we know about the data, the more we understand the data itself and what is
           meaningful (and what is not), and the more we learn how to gauge our trust in the infor-
           mation. We can learn about the data and data quality using data profiling tools, and we can
           begin to understand the provenance or lineage of the data through a combination of auto-
           mated and manual techniques.
           We can aggregate master data from across the enterprise, clean it, reconcile it, and then
           manage it so that we control who is allowed to see it and who is allowed to change it. By
           actively managing master data in this way, we can assert our trust in this master data. When
           we believe that we can trust the data—that we manage and maintain a collection of trusted
           information—then we can be an authoritative source of that data for other users and
           applications.


           1.4.2 Consistent Use of Master Data Across the Organization
           It is not just the quality and consistency of the data that is important—it is also the consis-
           tent usage of that master data throughout the enterprise. MDM Systems offer a consistent,
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM    Page 42




           42                                                  Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           comprehensive view of master data across the organization. Typically, this unified view is
           not available before an MDM implementation takes place. In this pre-MDM situation, mas-
           ter data is typically spread out across multiple, autonomous line-of-business systems. These
           systems could be of a homogeneous or heterogeneous nature. An example of a homoge-
           neous situation will be presented in Chapter 8, where we will see a solution blueprint using
           an MDM System to provide a consistent view of product data across SAP systems from mul-
           tiple geographies. A heterogeneous example could be one where customer data is stored
           both in Siebel CRM and in a custom-built billing system. The benefits of using MDM in this
           situation come from the data quality improvements we saw earlier and from cost savings
           and efficiencies we will describe later, as well as from improved support for regulatory
           compliance.

           1.4.2.1 Cost Savings and Efficiencies
           Cost reduction and avoidance is another benefit of tackling MDM. There are many opera-
           tional savings and efficiencies that can be achieved by implementing reusable services sup-
           porting key processes such as name and address change in CDI or product information
           changes in PIM. In an unmanaged master data environment, transactions like these typi-
           cally need to be applied to every application that contains such data, often by manually re-
           keying information. Depending on the MDM implementation style in use, such processing
           can be drastically reduced by only updating the coexistence or operational MDM hub and
           automatically forwarding such changes to the interested applications, or by having these
           other applications consult the MDM System directly for this master data. This process can
           reduce the amount of effort required to propagate such changes through the enterprise and
           improves this propagation by ensuring all relevant systems are updated. This process also
           improves the quality of the propagation by ensuring that all the updates are the same and
           that no re-keying errors occur.
           Other cost avoidance opportunities can be identified by focusing on the benefits of having
           an enterprise-wide view of the master data entities available in the MDM Solution. This
           enterprise view allows for the discovery of relationships between entities that were previ-
           ously only distributed across multiple systems. In the case of CDI, we can therefore bring
           together all of the information about a party from across all of the different systems, includ-
           ing all of the addresses at which the client can be reached, all of the products the client owns
           (obtained from different lines of business), family relationships, or additional identifiers
           such as driving license or passport number. All of this information can be used to optimize
           dealings with the client and provide a better customer experience in dealing with the
           company—thereby increasing customer retention.
           MDM can lead to a reduction in data storage costs and total cost of ownership of a solution
           by removing redundant copies of master data, although this benefit mainly occurs in a con-
           solidation and transactional hub style of MDM. The data volumes occupied by master data
           in a typical enterprise are very significant and there can be substantial savings in storage
           costs. In a registry or coexistence style MDM implementation, the storage requirements typ-
           ically increase, because all of the existing unmanaged master data copies are still main-
           tained, together with the new data storage requirements for the MDM hub. Another caveat
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM      Page 43




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                  43



           here is that in many cases an MDM System starts to store more master data than was originally
           available in unmanaged form. In essence, the master data in the MDM System is aug-
           mented with data previously not recorded in the enterprise. Data fields may need to be
           larger—for example, the ID field needs to be longer because more entities appear in a single
           system. Typical examples can be found in the area of privacy preferences or e-mail addresses
           that were previously not recorded in the older source systems.
           Enterprise resources such as money, labor, advertising, and IT systems are typically scarce
           commodities that need to be applied in those areas where they can offer maximal return on
           investment. Unmanaged master data hinders this resource allocation because the informa-
           tion required to drive decisions is scattered among many systems. Questions such as “Who
           are my most valuable customers?,” “Which are my best selling products?,” and “Is there
           fraud—and if so, where?” require a managed set of master data.
           In traditional operating environments, such decisions are based on information from a data
           warehouse, which often is the only location where data was available in cleansed, undupli-
           cated form. Data warehouses, however, have inherent design characteristics to optimize
           them for analytics and reporting, and they are generally not designed to support operational
           transactions. In addition, this data often has a higher degree of latency and is therefore
           somewhat stale. Without MDM, a customer who just bought a high-end product over the
           Web and is calling in to the call center might not appear as a very valuable client to the cus-
           tomer service representative. Without managed master data, it is very difficult to get a com-
           plete view of such a customer or product and determine its value to the enterprise.
           Consequently, resources can’t be optimally applied, and it is difficult to provide a higher
           level of service.
           Supporting all channels with managed master data delivers common, consistent informa-
           tion that allows customer service representatives to give the same discount to a client on the
           phone as the one he or she just handled by mail or on the Web site. Managed master data
           allows for the product description in the printed catalog to match the one on the Web site
           and printed on the product. The consistency MDM offers leads to cost savings because it
           reduces the effort required to process this data at a channel level. This reduction in effort is
           a significant improvement over the effort required to keep consistency across channels in
           an unmanaged master data environment.
           The overall picture that MDM creates of the master data is more complete than any of the
           pictures in the contributing systems, and it is therefore more useful for due diligence
           processes or to detect potential fraud. In fact, we can use MDM to proactively uncover fraud
           and to create alerts or take appropriate actions. After the master data is managed by an MDM
           system, we can determine relationships between master data entities that were not
           detectable before. For example, it is very valuable to detect that a new prospective client is
           co-located at an address of another customer with a very similar name who is on the bank-
           ruptcy list, or to figure out that the manager in charge of purchasing is married to one of
           your biggest vendors.
           MDM allows for the streamlining and automation of business processes for greater effi-
           ciency. Furthermore, MDM centralizes the master data within the enterprise and enables the
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM    Page 44




           44                                                    Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           refactoring and reuse of key business processes around that master data. For example, CDI
           facilitates the development of enterprise-wide New Account Opening processes, and PIM
           enables the development of enterprise-wide New Product Introduction processes.

           1.4.2.2 Regulatory Compliance
           Many newspaper articles commence with “Since Enron and September 11, 2001” when dis-
           cussing regulatory compliance, but regulatory bodies have been around for much longer
           than this. The original Anti-Money Laundering (AML) controls were implemented in the
           Bank Secrecy Act of 1970 [9] and have been amended up to the present. The Basel
           Committee first came together in 1975 as a result of the failure of Bankhaus Herstatt [10].
           Since the two mentioned incidents, however, the pace and rigor of new regulations has
           increased significantly. In addition, it is very rare for one of these regulations to be with-
           drawn and disappear. Since 1981, over 100,000 regulations have been added in the United
           States [11]. Consequently, the number of regulations that a modern enterprise needs to
           adhere to is continually increasing, as are the expenses associated with compliance. According
           to a study by the Financial Executives Institute, companies should expect to spend an aver-
           age of $3 million to comply with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) [12]. Forrester
           Research estimates the five-year cost of a Basel II implementation for the largest banks to be
           $150 million. Obviously, there are vast differences between all these regulations: by indus-
           try and by geography, and also by the strictness, penalties, and consequences of noncom-
           pliance. Some of the most well-known regulations are Basel II, Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), the
           Patriot Act, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) watch lists,18 Solvency II, “Do not call”
           compliance from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Anti-Money Laundering
           (AML), and HIPAA.19
           Some of these regulations are global, while others are specific to North America or Europe,
           but most have equivalent regulations across all geographies. Obviously, implementing point
           solutions for each of these regulations separately is not viable, and enterprises have to look
           at approaching this situation in a more holistic manner. Fortunately, even though they have
           different policies, many regulations share common objectives that require that authoritative
           data is used in business processes and that proper controls over key data are in place.
           Organizations are therefore starting to establish regulatory frameworks instead of addressing
           each of these regulatory compliance initiatives with a dedicated point solution. This
           approach also better positions them to adapt to changes in regulation or the introduction
           of new regulations in the future. Achieving regulatory compliance initially does not add
           anything to a company’s bottom line; it is a pure cost and used as a “penalty avoidance”
           measure. However, the solutions that are put in place to achieve compliance can be lever-
           aged to drive many other advantages and differentiators in the market. Thus, as you can see
           in Figure 1.17, the more maturely compliance is handled, the more business value for the
           stakeholders can be derived from it.




           18. Threat and fraud scenarios are discussed further in Chapters 4 and 7.
           19. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08         12:25 PM               Page 45




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                    45




                                                                                          VALUE
                                                    TRANSFORM
                                                      “Leverage Compliance for
                                                       Competitive Advantage”




                               Maturity Continuum
                                                    IMPROVE
                                                     “Optimize and
                                                       Sustain”


                                                    COMPLY
                                                     “Penalty
                                                    Avoidance”

                                  COST
                                                                      Stakeholder Value


           Figure 1.17 Maturation from risk mitigation and penalty avoidance to leveraging risk and
           compliance as a competitive advantage.

           To illustrate the relationship between compliance and master data more concretely, we now
           describe a few of the high-impact regulatory policies.
                    • CDI—Know Your Customer (KYC)
                      KYC is a compliance policy related to the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA Patriot Act
                      and to international standards such as Solvency II and the International Accounting
                      Standards. It requires financial institutions to diligently identify their clients and
                      obtain certain relevant information required to enact financial business with them.
                      One aspect of KYC is to verify that the customer is not on lists of known fraudsters,
                      terrorists, or money launderers, such as the Office of Foreign Assets Control’s (OFAC)
                      Specially Designated Nationals list. Another is to obtain an investment profile from
                      customers to identify their risk tolerance before selling them investment products.
                      CDI systems are designed to store and maintain identifying pieces of information,
                      such as driving licenses, passports, and Social Security Numbers on the parties in the
                      system. Through the de-duplication functionality available in an MDM System,
                      companies have a much better chance of correctly identifying two parties as being
                      one and the same. CDI systems can store KYC party profile information like the
                      questionnaire answers obtained for a financial profile of the client, and CDI systems
                      can more easily check a company’s entire list of customers, vendors, employees, and
                      so on, against any of the known felon lists.
                    • CDI—Privacy
                      Privacy is defined as a basic human right in the “Universal Declaration of Human
                      Rights,” and although data privacy legislation and regulation is not very strict in the
                      United States, it is much more rigidly defined and enforced in Canada and especially
                      in Europe. The European Commission’s “Directive on the Protection of Personal
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08   12:25 PM    Page 46




           46                                                   Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



                      Data” states that anyone processing personal data must comply with the eight
                      enforceable principles of good practice. These principles state that data must be:
                             • Fairly and lawfully processed
                             • Processed for limited purposes
                             • Adequate, relevant, and not excessive
                             • Accurate
                             • Not kept longer than necessary
                             • Processed in accordance with the data subject’s rights
                             • Secure
                             • Not transferred to countries without adequate protection
                      Verification of these principles within an enterprise requires strict management and
                      governance of the company’s master data. This governance includes both the ref-
                      erential and persisted storage of the data as well as management of the processes
                      handling this data. These and other requirements originating for data privacy leg-
                      islation and regulations can be serviced by using MDM System features. Access to
                      the data needs to be restricted to those who have the rights to administer it through
                      user authorization and authentication, and data entitlements. Private data can not
                      be kept indefinitely, and archiving and data deletion features need to be present.
                      Preferences for do not mail, do not call, and do not e-mail need to be available
                      within the MDM data models in order to comply, for example, with the “National
                      Do Not Call Registry” in the United States. These kinds of data augmentations are
                      often easier to implement in a centralized MDM System than in silo-based admin-
                      istrative systems.
                    • CDI/Account, Credit Risk Mitigation
                      Unfortunately, not everybody pays their bills. Credit risk is the risk of loss due to
                      non-payment of a loan or other line of credit. Offering more credit to a particular
                      client increases the credit risk for the company. Risk is offset against the potential
                      gains that can be made on the loan. However, in many cases, companies cannot
                      even clearly determine the credit risk of a particular customer they are exposed to
                      because they do not have sufficiently cleansed and de-duplicated customer data.
                      The same customer might exist in the system multiple times and carry credit on
                      every instance, thereby increasing the creditor’s risk. Using an MDM System to keep
                      customer data clean and de-duplicated can help lower risk exposure for the com-
                      pany by providing a clear picture of the risk exposure of a particular client. Another
                      common occurrence is that some of a company’s vendors are also its clients.
                      Realizing that these two parties are one and the same can increase a company’s
                      negotiation position when credit is drawn on one side of this relationship and
                      offered on the other.
                    • PIM and Regulatory Compliance
                      Product information is also a heavily regulated asset. Packaging information, export
                      and customs information, ingredients lists, warning labels, safety warnings, manu-
                      als, and many other types of product information all have to adhere to format,
                      content, and language rules that are very industry- and geography-specific.
                      Centrally storing this data in a PIM system helps the compliance process, but it is
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08   12:25 PM     Page 47




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                   47



                      the collaborative workflow processes around maintaining this data in a PIM system
                      that enable proper control of product master data to ensure regulatory compliance.
                    • PIM/RFID—Regulatory Compliance—Traceability in the Pharmaceutical Industry
                      The Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA) of 1988 in the United States man-
                      dates that drug wholesalers that are not manufacturers or authorized distributors of
                      a drug must provide a pedigree for every prescription drug they distribute. This reg-
                      ulation was created to prevent drug counterfeiters from entering illegal and poten-
                      tially dangerous products into U.S. commerce. While the implementation of this
                      regulation is still being contested in court and was postponed in 2006, several states
                      have stepped up their individual pedigree legislation. Most noticeably, California
                      has adopted a requirement that the drug’s pedigree be available in electronic form.
                      Electronic Product Codes (EPC) and Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) are two
                      promising technologies that are being used in this area. By building applications
                      around these technologies, individual shipment lots can be tracked to ensure their
                      pedigree. Hooking this transactional data up to the product information stored in
                      a PIM system allows for a full 360-degree view of a product, its detailed informa-
                      tion, and its passage through the supply chain.20
                    • Account Domain and Regulatory Compliance
                      Today, all financial institutions globally are required to monitor, investigate, and
                      report transactions of a suspicious nature to their central banks. They must perform
                      due diligence in establishing the customer’s identity and the source and destination
                      of the funds. The account domain of an MDM can be used to provide references to
                      accounts that exist elsewhere, in other back-end administrative account systems,
                      and how they are related to parties in the system. This information can be very use-
                      ful in identifying possible cases of money laundering. Alternatively, the MDM
                      System can be used as the system of record for account information, in which case
                      the account exists and is managed solely within the MDM System. In this second
                      case, the transactions that are being performed on such an account need to be mon-
                      itored for possible fraudulent behavior.


           1.4.3 Accommodate and Manage Change
           In this section, we take a look at various aspects of managing and accommodating change
           within an organization, viewed from an MDM perspective.

           1.4.3.1 Reducing Time to Market
           Marketplaces are increasingly more volatile, competitive, and risky. For businesses to partic-
           ipate in these markets, they must be able to respond rapidly to directional, structural, and
           relationship changes within their chosen industries and market sectors. Reducing the time
           to market for their New Product Introduction is a critical objective in this pursuit. Time to
           market is defined as the amount of time it takes to bring a product from conception to a point
           where it is available for sale. Across industries, different phases in the product development


           20. A detailed discussion on RFID Track and Trace can be found in Chapter 6.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08      12:25 PM      Page 48




           48                                                          Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           process are identified as the start or end-point of the Time to Market process. In some indus-
           tries, the start is defined as the moment a concept is approved; in others, it is when the prod-
           uct development process is actually staffed. The definition of the end of the Time to Market
           measurement is also open to interpretation. In some industries, it may be defined as the
           handover from product engineering to manufacturing, or in other industries, it may be the
           moment the product is in the client’s hands. Regardless of the scope of the process, what is
           important to a business is the relevant measurement of its Time to Market against that of its
           direct competitors. Getting to the market first is important for various reasons. It allows an
           enterprise more freedom in setting the product price, because no competitive products are
           available until the competition catches up. It may also allow an enterprise to obtain an early
           foothold and capture an initial market share before its competitors, allowing the organiza-
           tion to profile its brand as the industry leader in that area.
           It is critical for a successful and optimal execution of the New Product Introduction that con-
           sistent, high-quality information about the product is available to all parties involved in the
           NPI process. Unmanaged, scattered master data about products leads to inconsistencies, inac-
           curacies, and therefore to delays in Time to Market for the product, providing opportunities to
           competitors to react and get to market first. MDM is a key enabler to the management of these
           collaborative workflows. By obtaining a consistent, cleansed, and accurate version of the prod-
           uct data in a PIM system, many NPI processes can be improved. Steps in the NPI product devel-
           opment process typically include checking, review, approval, and control of product
           structures. It is therefore critical to manage the related product information in the same man-
           ner and to provide a consistent implementation of the NPI process in the PIM MDM System.

           1.4.3.2 Revenue Enhancement and Other New Opportunities
           MDM provides a higher level of insight into master data, and this can be used to identify
           opportunities for revenue improvement. Increased insight into high-value customers
           through profiles, or account and interactions information, can be used to identify candidates
           for up-sell or cross-sell opportunities. Increased insight into master data around products can
           then be used to identify which up-sell and cross-sell opportunities21 exist when selling a par-
           ticular product to that customer and which bundling opportunities can be leveraged.
           Events relating to master data can be analyzed to identify revenue opportunities. For exam-
           ple, residence changes and other life events can alert sales to potentially changing customer
           needs. Without MDM, there is no enterprise-wide ability to recognize and communicate
           such events and thus no sales actions are taken, no e-mail campaigns are directed based on
           such events, and no outbound telephone calls or Web offers are made. All of these result in
           missed revenue opportunities.

           1.4.3.3 Ability to Rapidly Innovate
           Companies cannot grow through cost reduction and reengineering alone. Innovation is the key
           element in providing aggressive top-line growth and increasing bottom-line results (see [13] for
           details). Innovation is the successful implementation of creative ideas within an organization.


           21.   A more detailed discussion on leveraging master data for cross-sell and up-sell can be found in Chapter 7.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM      Page 49




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                    49



           Innovation begins with a creative idea by an individual or a team, and while the initial idea is
           a necessary input, it is not sufficient to guarantee innovation (see [14] for details). To achieve
           innovation, the implementation of the idea needs to be successful. It is in the implementation
           of those creative ideas where MDM can help an organization innovate. Innovation within an
           enterprise can take many different forms. Product, service, and process innovation are some of
           the more obvious types, but marketing innovation, business model innovation, organizational
           innovation, supply chain innovation, and financial innovations are other examples of innova-
           tions that can contribute to increased success. All of these innovations have dependencies on
           the master data available within the enterprise and the processes surrounding them.

           1.4.3.4 Product or Service Innovation
           If a company wants to introduce an innovation around a product or a service it offers, or if it
           wants to start offering a new product or service, an MDM System can help centrally manage
           the related changes that need to be made to the product master data. Where no MDM System
           exists, product data may be scattered across the enterprise. Integrating across these multiple
           copies and ensuring all copies are properly updated acts as an inhibitor to innovation.
           A product innovation may require updates to the MDM System as well. For example, what
           was previously a valid value for a product attribute might now not be incorrect, requiring a
           change to data validation routines. Alternatively, the innovation might require additional
           attributes to be kept as part of the product information, requiring changes to the data struc-
           tures and metadata information. In many ways, the advantages MDM can provide here are
           similar to the ones that offered streamlining of the new product introduction process, as we
           have seen earlier. Another usage of MDM for product innovation is product bundling. Many
           organizations have separate lines of business that manage their individual product lines,
           often backed by isolated IT systems geared specifically to supporting one particular type of
           product. A common example here would be a telecommunications company that sells land-
           line and mobile subscriptions, cable or satellite TV, and high-speed Internet access. Such a
           company might want to provide product innovation by offering its clients bundled prod-
           ucts with associated discounts. None of the existing administrative systems may be suited
           for this purpose—however, an MDM System managing a combination of customer, product,
           and account information would be a logical starting point to enable such a purpose. It can
           provide reference links to all of the administrative systems that manage the bundle compo-
           nents and oversee the terms and conditions of the bundle.

           1.4.3.5 Process Innovation
           SOA in general and MDM specifically are enablers of process change and innovation for the
           enterprise (we will go into more detail on the relationship between SOA and MDM in the
           next chapter). MDM delivers data management services to the enterprise that closely align
           with business tasks that manage master data. Therefore, the definitions of these services can
           be directly used in the conception and process modeling phase of a process innovation project.
           Additionally, the implementation of these services enables the enterprise to realize the process
           innovations much more quickly than was previously possible. Previously, process innova-
           tions would have resulted in extensive impact on the scattered master data elements in the
           enterprise. Where does the process retrieve its customer name and address information from?
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM   Page 50




           50                                                Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           Where can it find the related products sold to those customers? How are both of these source
           systems organized so the data can be retrieved effectively? All of these questions and this
           complexity would have to be dealt with each time an innovation in business process was
           considered. Because the implementation of the MDM System has already resolved these
           issues, it is now easier to change existing business processes and support process innovation.


           1.4.3.6 Market Innovation
           Marketing is focused on creating, winning, and retaining customers. Marketing innovations
           deal with the identification and development of new ways of achieving this. including new
           product designs or packaging, new product promotions, or new media messages and pric-
           ing. Successful marketing innovations depend heavily on the quality and timeliness of the
           market and enterprise data they use to do their analysis. This is where an MDM implemen-
           tation can be very beneficial to these innovation initiatives. The MDM Customer Data
           Integration system contains the most accurate, up-to-date, and complete view of the current
           customers, vendors, and prospects. The MDM Product Information Management system
           contains the most complete view of the products available in the enterprise. Combined with
           data from other master data domains, this is a wealth of information vital to the marketing
           analysis and market innovations. The data warehouse is another typical source of data con-
           sulted for this purpose. Because cleansed data from the MDM System is an excellent data
           source for a data warehouse, its usage for marketing innovations is complementary to that
           of MDM.


           1.4.3.7 Supply Chain Innovation
           As communications and transportation have rapidly increased, opportunities for change in
           the supply chain have increased dramatically. The Internet has brought together suppliers
           and buyers that were previously unaware of each other and has opened world markets for
           even the smallest organizations. Internet advancements have also opened up the market for
           labor to be employed where it can be most economically sourced. All of these new possibil-
           ities offer opportunities for supply chain innovation. To implement these innovations,
           enterprises need to optimize their ability to switch between in-house and outsourced parts
           of their supply chain, cultivating the ability to quickly switch from one supplier to the next
           or from one distribution model to the next. When master data is not well managed, mak-
           ing such changes can lead to serious business errors. Well-defined and well-managed master
           data, combined with well run MDM processes, allows for quicker implementation of supply
           chain innovations. New sources of master data can be incorporated in the MDM infrastruc-
           ture quickly, and because all of the data will go through the same data quality processes and
           the same MDM business processes, the overall stability of the corporate master data won’t
           be affected negatively. It is also much easier to supply master data to new elements within
           the supply chain requesting it. Because of its hub architecture, the number of changes that
           need to be applied to application interactions is much smaller than in a traditional network
           infrastructure where unmanaged master data exists in many different systems. In Figure 1.18,
           the addition of a new distribution channel (A) leads to fewer changes (dotted arrows) in the
           enterprise application infrastructure when an MDM System is present.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08    12:25 PM      Page 51




           1.4 Business Benefits of Managed Master Data                                                    51



                          Raw Materials Manufacturers                  Distribution   Retailers/
                            Supplier                                    Channels      Customers


                                                                     New
                                                                            A




                                            Without MDM             With MDM
                                                                             A
                                                      A
                                                                      MDM




           Figure 1.18 Supply Chain with and without MDM.


           1.4.3.8 Accommodating Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A)
           As we saw earlier, mergers and acquisitions are a common cause of the existence of unman-
           aged master data in an organization. The successful integration of data is heavily dependent
           on the data governance practices and the data quality standards of the participating organ-
           izations. If data governance is not practiced well within one of the participants, it is going
           to be very hard to identify the data sets that need to be consolidated. In many cases, much
           of the data is kept in places that IT is not even aware of, such as in spreadsheets or local data-
           bases. If the quality of the data is not adequate, the confidence in the data is low and con-
           solidation is going to be problematic even when adopting an MDM strategy. More often
           than not, the anticipated cost of such a data consolidation effort is underestimated and
           partly to blame for a high number of failed mergers and acquisitions. The Boston Consulting
           Group estimated that more than half of the mergers and acquisitions between 1992 and
           2006 actually lowered shareholder value.

           1.4.3.9 Introduction of New Requirements
           Business changes continuously, not just for the reasons described earlier, but often just to
           keep up with competitors and stay in business. In the change patterns described in this sec-
           tion, the role of an MDM System is to accommodate business change more easily and more
           rapidly within the enterprise, and to do so in a more controlled and governed manner.
           First, let’s consider changes to usage patterns and the user community. The user community
           that manages and retrieves master data changes over time. Common examples can be found
           in the many self-service Web sites where customers can change name, address, and phone
           number information online or through the integration of a vendor portal for a retailer.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/9/08   2:27 PM   Page 52




           52                                                  Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



           These self-service and portal-based usages add whole new communities of end users to the
           enterprise. Using an MDM System, these new user communities can be integrated into the
           total user community by assigning them the appropriate security rights and privileges, pro-
           viding them with suitable user interfaces, and managing the additional workload by scaling
           up the MDM System to an appropriate level.
           Management of master data is governed by many business rules—rules that determine data
           validity, entity lifecycles, decision-making processes, event handling, matching, and merg-
           ing. Over time these rules tend to change. Some rules are relaxed, others are tightened, oth-
           ers are corrected, and still more change because of external influences (e.g., regulatory or
           legislative changes). When using an MDM System, these business rules are encapsulated
           within services, so service consumers should not need to change their integration logic as
           rules change. Also, because business rules are componentized inside the MDM System, they
           are easy to change. Such changes require appropriate governance, as we will describe later
           in this book.
           It is hard to predict future usage patterns of any IT system, and MDM is no exception. Thus,
           an MDM System must allow for new services to be built that address to new requirements
           without disturbing any of the existing integrations. It is important that the MDM System is
           able to quickly support such new services to reduce IT project implementation time. An
           MDM System typically contains tooling to create new service definitions augmenting the
           default set of services provided with the product license.
           Few products change as frequently and dramatically as software products. In an enterprise
           context, there is a never-ending stream of new applications, new versions, new releases, and
           new fix packs of all of the software products being used with the organization. These must fit
           into the IT infrastructure with minimal interruption to the business. An MDM System can
           help accommodate some of these types of changes in a number of ways. First, an MDM
           System must respect backward compatibility. In other words, it must make sure that newer
           versions of the MDM software, with new and improved functionality, can be introduced
           without affecting existing integrations with the rest of the IT infrastructure. The new system
           must support the existing services, and the existing integrations and data, in order to not dis-
           rupt the business after upgrade. Secondly, MDM Systems typically run on a stack of other
           software products such as database management systems (DBMS), application servers, and
           message middleware. The MDM System isolates the end user of the services from the details
           of the underlying infrastructure. Clients of the system should not require software upgrades
           if an underlying stack component is upgraded. Thirdly, MDM Systems typically run on a
           variation of different hardware platforms. This enables the enterprise to select the platform
           most suitable for its needs. Infrastructure stack dependencies can become opportunities if the
           same MDM System can run on Microsoft®, Windows®, and IBM z/OS® Mainframes. Finally,
           the usage of SOA architecture (see Chapter 2) with service-based interfaces isolates the MDM
           users and client software from the details of the underlying implementation and related changes.
           As we saw earlier in the discussion on mergers and acquisitions, MDM can play an impor-
           tant role in bringing data from the participating companies together into one managed loca-
           tion for master data. But adding additional sets of data is not only related to mergers and
Dreibelbis_01.qxd     5/7/08   12:25 PM   Page 53




           References                                                                                      53



           acquisitions. In many cases, enterprise MDM enablement is phased in by addressing only
           one subset of the applications and their data in the enterprise at a time. After an initial load
           involving a few enterprise systems, the rest is phased in iteratively over time. Even in rela-
           tively mature deployments, batch loads into the MDM Systems are fairly common.
           Facilitating quick and accurate migrations, creating initial or delta loads is an important
           capability of an MDM System, allowing the business to leverage the advantages of MDM
           more rapidly and to react efficiently to changing environments.



           Conclusion

           MDM is a broad subject that touches on many of the concepts of enterprise information
           architecture. MDM strives to untangle and simplify the complex systems that have evolved
           to manage core business information by logically consolidating this information into man-
           aged yet flexible MDM Systems. Acting as either a system of record or a system of reference,
           MDM Systems can provide authoritative data to all enterprise applications.
           As we have described throughout the chapter, successful MDM Systems:
                    • Provide a consistent understanding and trust of master data entities
                    • Provide mechanisms for consistent use of master data across the organization
                    • Are designed to accommodate and manage change
           These are the key principles of MDM that we will continue to detail throughout the remain-
           der of the book.
           The business drivers behind MDM are compelling—from regulatory compliance to improv-
           ing the responsiveness of an organization to change. By providing authoritative information
           as a set of services, MDM is also a key enabler for broader enterprise strategies, such as SOA.
           The following chapter will dive into the details of SOA and the role of MDM Systems in an
           SOA environment.



           References

            1. Inmon, W. H. 2005. Building the Data Warehouse. New York: John Wiley & Sons.
            2. Haas, Lin, and Roth. 2002. Data Integration through Database Federation. IBM Systems
               Journal 41(4):578–596.
            3. Gray, J., and Reuter, A. 1993. Transaction Processing: Concepts and Techniques. San Mateo, CA:
               Morgan Kaufmann.
            4. Inmon, W. H. 1999. Building the Operational Data Store. New York: John Wiley & Sons.
            5. Inmon, W. H., O’Neil, B., and Frymann, L. 2007. Business Metadata: Capturing Enterprise
               Knowledge. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufmann.
            6. van der Vlist, E. (2002). XML Schema. Sebastapool, CA: O’Reilly Media.
            7. Gilb, T. Principles of Software Engineering Management (1988): Principles of Software
               Engineering Management, Addison-Wesley Professional.
Dreibelbis_01.qxd   5/7/08   12:25 PM    Page 54




           54                                                  Chapter 1   •   Introducing Master Data Management



            8. Eckerson, W. W. 2002. Data Quality and the Bottom Line, Achieving business success through a
               commitment to high quality data. Retrieved 03/17/2008 from The Data Warehousing Institute
               at http://www.dw-institute.com/display.aspx?id=6045.
            9. USA Comptroller of the Currency. Bank Secrecy Act. Retrieved 03/17/2008 from http://
               www.occ.treas.gov/handbook/bsa.pdf.
           10. Bank for International Settlements. History of the Basel Committee and its Membership.
               Retrieved 03/17/2008 from http://www.bis.org/bcbs/history.pdf.
           11. Lickel, C. W. 2007. Introduction. IBM Systems Journal 46(2).
           12. Wayman, R. J. 2005. The Trickle Down of SOX. Retrieved 03/17/2008 from ResearchStock.com at
               http://www.researchstock.com/cgi-bin/rview.cgi?c=bulls&rsrc=RC-20050311-.
           13. Davila, T., Epstein, M. J., and Shelton, R. 2006. Making Innovation Work: How to Manage It,
               Measure It, and Profit from It. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Wharton School Publishing.
           14. Amabile, T., Conti, R., Coon, H., et al. 1996. Assessing the work environment for creativity.
               Academy of Management Journal 39(5): 1154–1184.
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd    5/9/08     11:20 AM      Page 599




           Index


           1SYNC, 330–331, 559                                    AML (Anti-Money Laundering)
           2PC (two-phase commit protocol), 571                     AML/CTF rules deployment, 419
           3 MLD (The Third European Money Laundering               AML Dashboard, 419
            Directive), 557                                         CDI Pattern, 293
           11 NYCRR 421, 551                                        CTS Services component, 416
           17 CFR Part 210, 540                                     Fraud and Theft Solution Blueprint for Banking and
           21 CFR 11, 540                                             Insurance, 410–411
                                                                    legal requirements, 410
                                                                  Analysis and Discovery Services
           A                                                        IaaS (information as a service), 84
           Absolute Consistency, 24–25                              MDM Logical Architecture, 118
           Account domain, 13–15, 47                              Analysis and Insight Capabilities. 105–106
           Account Services, 123                                  Analytical MDM, 82–83, 100–101
           Accuracy, data quality, 37–38, 497                     Analytical pattern, 21–23
           ACORD (Association for Cooperative Operations          Annotation of Metadata, 263
            Research and Development), 79, 375, 560               Anonymous Resolution Services, 138
           ACXIOM, 108                                            Anti-Money Laundering (AML). See AML (Anti-Money
           Adapters, MDM Interface Services, 121                   Laundering).
           Administration, user roles                             Anti-Terrorist Financing (ATF), 411
             Administrator, 525–527                               Application Level Events (ALE), 559
             Auditor, 522                                         Application patterns, 223–224
             Business Operations Manager, 519                     Applications, deployment security, 366
             Data Administrator, 521                              Architecture
             Database Administrator, 525–526                        definition, 93
             Deployer, 523                                          description, 94
             IT Administrator, 525                                  drivers, MDM Conceptual Architecture, 107
             IT Manager, 528                                        framework, MDM Solution, 110
             IT Operator, 523–524                                   pattern composition, 302–304
             Operational Data Steward, 519–521                      patterns, 224–226
             Problem Analyst, 527                                 Architecture principles, MDM Solutions, 110–114
             Resilience Engineer, 524                             ARTS (Association for Retail Technology Standards), 560
             Resource Owner, 522                                  Asset identification and valuation, 174–177
             Security Administrator, 526–527                      Association for Cooperative Operations Research and
           ADT (Admission Demographic Transaction), 384            Development (ACORD), 79, 375, 560
           AES (Advanced Encryption Standard), 559                ATF (Anti-Terrorist Financing), 411
           ALE (Application Level Events), 559                    ATNA (Audit Trail and Node Authentication), 385, 560



                                                            599
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08     11:20 AM       Page 600




           600                                                                                                      Index



           Attributes, MDM Architecture Patterns, 232–234           Blueprints, MDM solutions, 300 See also specific
           Audit Services, 195, 210–211                              blueprints.
           Audits                                                   BPEL (Business Process Execution Language), 78, 560
             deployment security, 366–367                           BSA (Bank Secrecy Act), 540
             privacy, 214                                           Business Analyst role
           Authentication                                             data governance, 484
             ATNA (Audit Trail and Node Authentication), 385, 560     description, 512
             definition, 179–180                                    Business benefits of MDM
             deployment security, 365, 366                            change management, 47–51
             The Kerberos Network Authentication Service, 567         consistency across the organization, 37–47
             standards and specifications, 560, 567                 Business Customizer role, 515
           Authentication Services                                  Business data stewards, 484, 496
             IT (Information Technology) Security Services,         Business flexibility, improving, 222–223
               193–194, 206–207                                     Business mapping, service granularity, 69, 70–71
             security considerations in MDM, 183                    Business patterns, 223
           Authoring Services, 125–127                              Business processes, SOA enterprise architecture, 61
           Authorization                                            Business rule engines, 394
             data-driven, 215                                       Business rules
             definition, 180                                          detecting risk event, 403
             deployment security, 365, 366                            triggering service representative call, 402
             management, 183                                        Business Security Services, 188–192
             security considerations in MDM, 184–185                Business Service Management layer, 80
           Authorization Services, 194, 207–209                     Business stakeholders, 492
             MDM Base Services, 130–131                             Business state machine, 61
           Automated receipts, 345
           Availability, 107. See also High availability.           C
                                                                    Caching Patterns, 267
           B                                                        California Security Breach Information Act (SB 1386),
           B2B patterns                                              542
             Cross- and Up-Sell Solution Blueprint for Banking      California’s ePedigree Law, 543
               & Insurance, 395                                     Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI), 485
             Master Patient Index Solution Blueprint for            Case Management, 421–422
               Healthcare, 378                                      Categorizing data. See Data categories.
             PIM-RFID Solution Blueprint for Track & Trace, 355     Category Manager role, 517–518
           B2C patterns                                             Category Specialist role, 496, 517, 518
             Cross- and Up-Sell Solution Blueprint for Banking &    CDI (Customer Data Integration)
               Insurance, 395                                         credit risk mitigation, 46
             Master Patient Index Solution Blueprint for              definition, 5
               Healthcare, 378                                        KYC (Know Your Customer), 45
           Back-end integration patterns, 223                         versus PIM domain, 13
           Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), 540                                privacy, 45–46
           Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, 44                               regulatory compliance, 44–46
           Banking industry                                         CDI ↔ AML Pattern, 293
             See also Cross- and Up-Sell Solution Blueprint for     CDI ↔ BI Analytical Systems Pattern, 293
               Banking & Insurance                                  CDI-MDM Solution Blueprints
             See also Fraud and Theft Solution Blueprint for          banking industry. See Cross- and Up-Sell Solution
               Banking and Insurance                                    Blueprint for Banking & Insurance; Fraud and Theft
             management and regulation, 540–558                         Solution Blueprint for Banking and Insurance.
             regulatory compliance, 45                                healthcare industry. See Master Patient Index
           Bar Coded Medication Management, 377                         Solution Blueprint for Healthcare.
           Barcodes, 346–348                                          insurance industry. See Cross- and Up-Sell Solution
           Base Services, 130–132                                       Blueprint for Banking & Insurance; Fraud and Theft
           Basel II, 44, 541                                            Solution Blueprint for Banking and Insurance.
           Batch Update Distribution, 156–158                         introduction, 371–372
           BDSG (Bundesdatenschutz-Gesetz), 541                       telecommunications industry. See Self-Service Website
           Best practices                                               Solution Blueprint for Telco.
             MDM Solutions, 302–303                                 Change management, 47–53
             patterns, 223                                            IaaS (information as a service), 83–84
           BI Analytical Systems ↔ AML Pattern, 293                   Initial Load Pattern, 263–264
           BI Analytical Systems → CDI Pattern, 293                 Chappel, David, 67
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd      5/9/08      11:20 AM        Page 601




           Index                                                                                                               601



           CICS (Customer Information Control System), 66               Consolidated implementation, 26–27
           Claims management processes, 376                             Consumer electronics industry, MDM Blueprints
           Classifications, 333                                           Blueprint overview, 318–328
           Clinical Information Systems, 377                              business context, 311–316
           CMDB (Configuration Management Database), 195                  business patterns, versus architecture patterns, 317–318
           CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration), 485              NPI (New Product Introduction), 311–316
           COBOL (COmmon Business-Oriented Language), 65                  relevant business patterns, 316–317
           COBOL copybook, 66                                           Content Management Services, 84, 118–119
           Coexistence Hub Pattern, 245–246                             Context attribute, 233, 234
           Coexistence implementation, 29–30                            Continuous operations, 112, 256. See also High availability.
           Coexistence Scenario—Information Synchronization,            Convergent Consistency, 24–25
            153–155                                                     Core disciplines, data governance, 488
           Collaborative Authoring pattern                              Cost reduction
             component interaction scenario, 145–148                      consistency of master data, 42–44
             definition, 15–16                                            data governance, 488
             description, 17–19                                           healthcare, 389
             workbaskets, 19                                              patterns, 223
           Collaborative method of use, monitoring and tracking, 82     Credit risk mitigation, 46
           Compensation transactions, 462                               CRM (Customer Relationship Management)
           Completeness                                                   integrating with MDM. See MDM-CRM Integration
             data quality, 497                                              Pattern.
             Information Synchronization Patterns, 275                  CRM systems with MDM Hub Patterns, 301
             of master data, 38–39                                      Cross- and Up-Sell Solution Blueprint for Banking
           Compliance. See also Standards and organizations.             & Insurance
             data governance, 488                                         B2B pattern, 395
             healthcare regulations, 375                                  B2C pattern, 395
             reporting, 188–189                                           Blueprint overview, 398–410
             standards, 78–79                                             business context, 390–394
           Component availability, effect on system availability, 257     business patterns, 395
           Component Model, 97                                            business patterns v architecture patterns, 395–396
           Componentization, 76–77                                        Cross- and Up-Sell pattern, 395
           Components, MDM Conceptual Architecture, 108–109             Cross-Reference Services, 125
           Composability, 75–76                                         Cross-selling, 391. See also Cross- and Up-Sell Solution
           Composite Application Management layer, 80                    Blueprint for Banking & Insurance.
           Composite architecture patterns, 225                         Cryptography, 195
           Composite patterns, 223                                      CTF Dashboard, 419
           Composition                                                  Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, 540
             patterns, 302–304                                          Customer change of address, 401–402
             SOA enterprise architecture, 61                            Customer creation
           Conceptual Architecture                                        banking and insurance, 417–419
             Analysis and Insight Capabilities, 105–106                   telecommunications, 425–427, 427–429
             analytical MDM, 100–101                                    Customer Data Integration (CDI). See CDI (Customer
             Data Quality Management, 103–104                            Data Integration).
             functional and technical capabilities, 102–106             Customer information, privacy, 168
             Master Data Harmonization, 104–105                         Customer Information Control System (CICS), 66
             Master Data Lifecycle Management, 102–103                  Customer Relationship Management (CRM)
             MDM Solution design, 99                                      integrating with MDM. See MDM-CRM Integration
             operational MDM, 100                                           Pattern.
             overview, 99–101                                           Customer service, Cross- and Up-Sell Solution, 393
           Confidentiality Services, 194, 209–210, 214
           Configuration Management Database (CMDB), 195                D
           Connectivity and Interoperability layer                      Data Administrator role, 521
             MDM Conceptual Architecture, 109                           Data categories
             MDM Logical Architecture, 116                               data characteristics, 36
           Consistency of master data across the organization            historical data, 35
             overview, 41–42                                             master data, 35
             data quality, 497                                           metadata, 33–34
             description, 39–40                                          reference data, 34–35
             Information Synchronization Patterns, 275                   SRR (Service Registry and Repository), 34
             understanding and trust, 37–41                              transaction data, 35
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08      11:20 AM       Page 602




           602                                                                                                          Index



           Data cleansing.                                           Data stewards, 19
            Cleansing Services, 135                                  Data stewardship roles, 496
            Information Integration Services, 135                    Data Stewardship Services, 122
            MDM Conceptual Architecture, 107                         Data subjects, privacy, 214
            privacy, 169                                             Data validation. See Validating master data.
            security, 169                                            Data Warehouse (DW) Systems for MDM Integration
           Data commissioners, privacy, 214                           Blueprint. See DW (Data Warehouse) Systems for
           Data consistency, 24–25                                    MDM Integration Blueprint.
           Data de-identification, 215–216                           Data warehousing, 21–23
           Data Encryption Standard (DES), 560                       Data-driven authorization, 215
           Data Entitlements, 209, 214                               Decoupling information, 110
           Data governance. See also Governance.                     Definition, IaaS characteristic, 85
            CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration), 485        Definition Master Data, 132–133
            component interaction scenario, 158–160                  Delegated administration, 191
            core disciplines, 488                                    Delegation Services, 132
            data risk management, 488                                Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), 140, 364
            DGMM (Data Governance Maturity Model), 485–488           Demographic Data Stewards, 496
            disciplines, summary of, 489                             Demographic data stewards, 484
            enablers, 488                                            Demographic Services, 122
            Executive Sponsors, 484, 492                             Denial of service, 172
            IBM Data Governance Council, 483                         Deployer role, 523
            Initial Load Pattern, 263                                Deployment
            maturity levels, comparison, 487                           acceleration patterns, 222
            overview, 482–483                                          environment, provisioning and delivery, 81
            processes, 485                                             patterns for. See Enterprise System Deployment Patterns.
            user roles, 484                                            styles, monitoring and tracking, 83
            Zachman Framework, 482                                   DES (Data Encryption Standard), 560
           Data governance, MDM project lifecycle                    Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented
            assessment and planning, 490–492                          Software, 220
            initial rollout, 495                                     Detection, fraud and theft for banking and insurance,
            IT Architecture and Operations, 492                       412
            ongoing support, 495                                     Detection Services, 135
            phased implementation, 495                               Developer perspective, SOA, 58
            project scope, 493–494                                   DGMM (Data Governance Maturity Model), 485–488
            solution considerations, 495                             Digital Picture Archiving Systems, 377
            stakeholder management, 492                              Dimensions of domains, 12
           Data Integrator role, 515                                 Directory and Security Services component, 141
           Data marts, 21–23                                         Directory Integration Services, 121
           Data masking, 215–216                                     Directory Server, 195
           Data pools, 330–331, 333                                  Disaster recovery, 258–259
           Data Profiling and Analysis Services, 134                 Disclosure control, 189–190
           Data Protection Act of 1984, 543                          Dispositions, 349
           Data protection management, 189–190                       Distributing trusted updates, 111–112
           Data quality, 496–498. See also Data Quality Services.    DMZ (Demilitarized Zone), 140, 364
           Data Quality Management Services, 124–125                 DNS (Domain Name Server), 561
           Data Quality Services. See also Data quality.             DNS (Domain Name Service), 561
            architectural overview, 103–104                          DNS (Domain Name System), 561
            clerical records, 506–507                                “Do not call” compliance, 44
            Data Validation and Cleansing, 501–507                   Document Model ePedigree, 561
            de-duplication, 501–507                                  The Do-Not-Call Implementation Act of 2003, 557
            deterministic matching algorithms, 504–505               DPMS (Drug Pedigree Messaging Standard), 354, 561
            probabilistic matching algorithms, 504–505               Drug and Cosmetic Act, Chapter 499, F.S., 548
            reconciliation services, 501–507                         Drug pedigree legislation, 353–355
            survivorship, 505–507                                    Dun and Bradstreet, 108
           Data Replication Patterns, 274                            DW (Data Warehouse) Systems for MDM Integration
           Data repositories, 63. See also Master Data Repository.    Blueprint
           Data risk management, 488                                   advantages, 454
           Data silos, privacy, 167–168                                alternatives, 454–455
           Data Steward processes, 324–325                             business patterns, 447
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd      5/9/08      11:20 AM       Page 603




           Index                                                                                                            603



            business patterns versus architecture patterns, 447        ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), 63, 534
            extensions, 454–455                                        ESB Patterns, 282–283
           Dynamic history data, 350                                   ETL (extract-transform-load), 228
                                                                       ETL Patterns, 266
           E                                                           ETL Services, 135
           EAN.UCC (International Article Numbering.Uniform            eTOM (enhanced Telecom Operations Map), 432
             Code Council), 561. See also GS1 Standards.               EU (European Union) Directive 95/46/EC on the
           EAN.UCC standards, 331                                       Protection of Personal Data, 546
           e-commerce                                                  European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), 372–373, 544
              customer interactions, 342                               EuroSox, 546
              product discontinuance process, 322                      Event Logging Services, 131
              product maintenance process, 321                         Eventing infrastructure, 394
           e-CTSFL (electronic-Consolidated Targeted Financial         Executive sponsors, data governance, 484
             Sanctions List), 416                                      Extended enterprise patterns, 223
           EDI (Electronic Data Interchange), 561                      Extensibility, 113
           EHIC (European Health Insurance Card), 372–373, 544         EXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML),
           EII Services, 136                                            185, 198, 562
           Electronic Product Codes (EPC), 47, 346, 562                EXtensible Markup Language (XML), 78, 563
           Electronic Product Codes Information Service (EPCIS). See   External data providers, software products for, 534
             EPCIS (Electronic Product Codes Information Service).     External modularity, 74–75
           End user, data access process, 325–326                      External threat actors, 178
           Enhanced Telecom Operations Map (eTOM), 432                 Extraction Services, 135
           Enterprise Architect perspective, 58                        Extract-transform-load (ETL), 228
           Enterprise architecture, SOA
              application services, 62                                 F
              business state machine, 61                               FACT (Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act), 547
              choreography, 61                                         Fault tolerance, 256. See also High availability.
              composition, 61                                          Federated Query—Operational Scenario, 151–153
              data repositories, 63                                    Federation, 24, 29
              ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), 63                         Federation Patterns, 261, 266
              governance, 64                                           Federation Services, 136
              information services, 63                                 FIEL (Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of
              layers, 60–64                                              2006), 548
              orchestration, 61                                        File Transfer Protocol (FTP), 563
              services, 61–62                                          Financial crimes. See Fraud and Theft Solution
           Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)                            Blueprint for Banking and Insurance.
              integrating with MDM. See MDM-ERP Integration            Financial data, privacy, 169
                Pattern.                                               Financial events, 393
              with MDM Hub Patterns, 301                               The Financial Modernization Act of 1999, 549
           Enterprise Service Bus (ESB)                                Firewalls, 192, 196, 364
              SOA enterprise architecture, 63                          Fixed-term financial events, 393
              software products for, 534                               Florida’s Drug and Cosmetic Act, 548
           Enterprise System Deployment Patterns                       Forces and constraints, 234
              description, 231                                         Forces attribute, 233–234
              diagram, 229                                             Fraud
              introduction, 228                                           banking and insurance industries. See Fraud and Theft
              overview, 285                                                 Solution Blueprint for Banking and Insurance.
              subpatterns diagram, 286                                    healthcare system, 375. See also PIM-RFID Solution
           EPC (Electronic Product Codes), 47, 346, 562                     Blueprint for Track & Trace.
           EPC Radio Frequency Identification Protocol, 562               standards and organizations, 375
           EPCGlobal Network, 348–349, 562                             Fraud and Theft Solution Blueprint for Banking and
           EPCIS (Electronic Product Codes Information Service), 348     Insurance
           ePedigree Law, 543                                             advantages, 422–423
           ePedigree solutions, 354                                       alternatives, 423–424
           Equivalency Management Services, 125                           business patterns, 413
           ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning)                             business patterns versus architecture patterns, 413–414
              integrating with MDM. See MDM-ERP Integration               extensions, 423–424
                Pattern.                                               Front-end integration patterns, 223
              with MDM Hub Patterns, 301                               FTP (File Transfer Protocol), 563
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08     11:20 AM       Page 604




           604                                                                                                         Index



           G                                                         admittance staff members, 383–385
                                                                     advantages, 389–390
           GDD (Global Data Dictionary), 563
                                                                     Bar Coded Medication Management, 377
           GDS (Global Data Synchronization), 79, 330–333, 564
                                                                     claims management processes, 376
           GDS Core Engine Administration, 339
                                                                     Clinical Data Repository, 377
           GDS (Global Data Synchronization) Patterns, 274
                                                                     Clinical Information Systems, 377
           GDSN (Global Data Synchronization Network), 79,
                                                                     compliance, 375
            330–334, 564
                                                                     court-appointed guardians, 382
           GDSN Network versus EPCGlobal Network, 349–352
                                                                     Digital Picture Archiving Systems, 377
           Germany’s Federal Data Protection Act, 541
                                                                     medical management processes, 376
           GLBA (Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act). See The Financial
                                                                     member management, 373
            Modernization Act of 1999.
                                                                     mobile medical services, tracking, 388
           GLN (Global Location Number), 332, 564
                                                                     partner management, 374
           Global Data Synchronization, 339
                                                                     patient records, creating, 383–386
           Global Registries, 233
                                                                     Point-of-Care Decision Support, 377
           Global retail data synchronization, MDM Solution
                                                                     post-treatment follow up, 388
            Blueprints
                                                                     premium costs, 376
             advantages, 343
                                                                     providers, 374
             alternatives, 343–344
                                                                     relationship management, 382–383
             Blueprint overview, high-level diagram, 334
                                                                     tailored services and products, 389
             business patterns, 335
                                                                   Hierarchy and Relationship Management Services
             business patterns versus architecture patterns, 335
                                                                     diagram, 129
             extensions, 343–344
                                                                     overview, 129
             minimum pattern requirements, 335
                                                                     Relationship, 130
           “Golden Middle,” 299–300
                                                                     Roll-up, 130
           Golden records, 26–27
                                                                     Versioning, 130
           Governance. See also Data governance.
                                                                     Views, 130
             case study, 478–480
                                                                   Hierarchy Services, 126
             COBIT (Control OBjectives for Information and
                                                                   High availability
               related Technology), 480–481
                                                                     continuous operations, 112, 256
             definition, 477
                                                                     definition, 256
             DS II Manage Data, 481–482
                                                                     disaster recovery, 258–259
             IT (Information Technology), 480
                                                                     fault tolerance, 256
             IT lifecycle activities, 480–481
                                                                     MDM Solution, 112–113
             SOA governance, 481–482
                                                                     MTBF (Mean Time Between Failure), 257
           GPC (Global Product Classification), 332, 564
                                                                     MTTF (Mean Time To Failure), 257
           Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA). See The Financial
                                                                     MTTR (Mean Time To Recovery), 257
            Modernization Act of 1999.
                                                                     planned versus unplanned outages, 256
           Grouping Services, 127
                                                                     through redundancy, 257
           GS1 Global Registry, 331, 565
                                                                   HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and
           GS1 Standards, 331. See also EAN.UCC (International
                                                                    Accountability Act)
            Article Numbering.Uniform Code Council).
                                                                     description, 550
           GSMP (Global Standard Management Process), 331
                                                                     regulatory compliance, 44
           GTIN (Global Trade Identification Number), 332, 565
                                                                     security requirements, 214
                                                                   Historical data, 35
           H                                                       History Data, 132–133
           Hardened operating systems, 192                         History Logging Services, 131
           Hardware key storage, 195                               HL7 (Health Level 7), 375, 565
           Harmonization                                           Homezone areas, 425
             core business data, 112                               HSISA (Homeland Security Information Sharing Act),
             of data models, 269–270                                550
             system, 298–299                                       HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol), 565
           Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act     HTTPS (HyperText Transfer Protocol Secured over Secure
            (HIPAA). See HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and    Sockets Layer), 565. See also SSL (Secure Sockets Layer).
            Accountability Act).
           Health Level 7 (HL7), 375, 565                          I
           Healthcare. See also Master Patient Index Solution      IaaS (information as a service)
            Blueprint for Healthcare.                                adapting to change, 83–84
             360-degree member view, 377                             Analysis and Discovery Services, 84
             administrative costs, 376                               Content Services, 84
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd      5/9/08      11:20 AM       Page 605




           Index                                                                                                         605



              Data Services, 84                                        Information integration
              governance, 85                                              overview, 259
              Information Integration Services, 84                     Information Integration Services
              Master Data Management Services, 84                         Cleansing, 135
              Metadata Services, 84                                       Data Profiling and Analysis, 134
              quality, 85                                                 Detection, 135
              services, 84                                                Extraction, 135
           IBM Data Governance Council, 483                               Federation, 136
           IBM Patterns for e-business, 225                               Information Integrity, 134
           Identity Analytics, 109                                        Matching, 135
           Identity Analytics Event Management Services, 138              overview, 134
           Identity Analytics Services                                    Replication, 135
              Anonymous Resolution, 138                                   Transformation, 135
              Identity Analytics Event Management, 138                    Virtualization, 136
              Identity Management, 138                                 Information integration services, software products
              Matching, 137                                              for, 535
              Messaging, 137                                           Information Integrity Services, 134
              Notification, 138                                        Information Risk Analysis
              Relationship Management, 138                                overview, 170–171
              Resolution, 137                                             reduce/mitigate risk, 171–172
              Visualization, 136–137                                      risk reduction categories, 171–172
           Identity and access services, 190                              transfer risk, 172
           Identity feed, 190                                          Information Risk Management, for MDM
           Identity Foundation, 193                                       asset identification, 174–175
           Identity foundation, 204                                       asset valuation, overview, 175
           Identity lifecycle management, 190–191                         mitigation, 170
           Identity Management Services, 138                              overview, 174
           Identity Propagation, 193, 205–206                             recommended controls, 174
           Identity Provisioning, 193, 204–205                            Risk Analysis for MDM, 174
           Identity resolution, 21                                        Security Control Selection and Implementation, 174
           Identity Services, 193, 204–206                                vulnerabilities, 170
           Identity transformation and propagation, 365–366            Information services, 63
           IEEE (IEEE Std 1471-2000), 566                              Information Services Description, 263
           IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standard), 551      Information Synchronization—Coexistence, 153–155
           IFX (Interactive Financial eXchange), 566                   Information Technology (IT) Security Services. See IT
           IHE (Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise), 375, 566         (Information Technology) Security Services.
           IM (Inventory Management), 346                              Information-Focused Application Integration Patterns
           Immediate value, 111                                           description, 231
           Implementation, phased, 111, 114                               diagram, 229
           Implementation styles                                          Federation Pattern, 261
              coexistence style, 29–30                                    information as a service, 260–261
              consolidated style, 26–27                                   information integration, 259
              overview, 25–26                                             Information Synchronization Patterns, 271–276
              registry style, 27–29                                       Initial Load Pattern, 261–271
              transactional hub style, 30–31                              introduction, 227
           Implementing MDM systems                                       master data qualification and validation, 261
              coexistence style, 29–30                                 Initial Load Pattern, 261–276
              consolidated style, 26–27                                Initial rollout, 495
              overview, 25–26                                          In-line analytics, 22
              registry style, 27–29                                    Inpatient treatment, tracking, 386–388
              transactional hub style, 30–31                           Instance Master Data, 132–133
           Import/Export Services, 121                                 Insurance industry. See Cross- and Up-Sell Solution
           Incremental Updates to a Data Warehouse, 160–162              Blueprint for Banking & Insurance.
           Information aggregation, 355                                   MDM Solution Blueprints. See Fraud and Theft
           Information Aggregation patterns, 378                            Solution Blueprint for Banking and Insurance.
           Information aggregation patterns, 223                       Integrating information. See Information integration.
           Information as a Service, 260–263                           Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE), 375, 566
           Information as a service (IaaS). See IaaS (information as   Integration
             a service).                                                  external data, 422
           Information Developer role, 516                                with external systems, 436–437
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd      5/9/08      11:20 AM       Page 606




           606                                                                                                        Index



           Integration (Continued )                                  J
              on the glass, 457
                                                                     J2EE (Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition), 566
              SOA enterprise architecture, 63
                                                                     JKE (JK Enterprises), 478–480
           Integration patterns, 223
                                                                     JMS (Java Message Service), 78, 566
              See also MDM-BI Analytical System Integration
                                                                     J-SOX. See FIEL (Financial Instruments and Exchange
                Pattern
                                                                       Law of 2006).
              See also MDM-CRM Integration Pattern
                                                                     JSR 168 (portlet specification), 567
              See also MDM-DW Integration Pattern
                                                                     JSR 286 (portlet container specification), 567
              See also Process-Focused Application Integration
                Patterns
           Integrity Services, 194–195, 210
                                                                     K
           Interaction History Services, 122                         The Kerberos Network Authentication Service, 567
           Interactive Financial eXchange (IFX), 566                 Key management, 195
           Interface Services                                        KPIs (Key Performance Indicators), 114
              Adapters, 121                                          KYC (Know Your Customer), 45
              Batch component, 120
              Coexistence Hub Pattern, 244                           L
              Data Standardization Interface, 121                    Legacy environments, 234
              diagram, 120                                           Lifecycle Management Services
              Directory Integration, 121                               Account, 123
              Import/Export, 121                                       Coexistence Hub Pattern, 244–245
              MDM Logical Architecture, 117                            Customer Insight, 122
              Messaging, 121                                           Data Stewardship, 122
              overview, 119–120                                        Demographic, 122
              Publish and Subscribe, 121                               diagram, 122
              Registry Hub Pattern, 239                                Interaction History, 122
              RMI, 120                                                 Location, 122
              Web, 120                                                 MDM Logical Architecture, 117
              XML, 120                                                 overview, 121–122
           Internal modularity, 74                                     Product, 123
           Internal threat actors, 178                                 Registry Hub Pattern, 239
           International Article Numbering.Uniform Code              Load Balancing component, 140
             Council (EAN.UCC), 561. See also GS1 Standards.         Load step, 262
           International Financial Reporting Standard                Load Window, 270
             (IFRS), 551                                             Load/Apply Services, 135
           Intrusion detection, 192, 196                             Location, telecommunications industry, 425–427, 427–429
           Intrusion prevention, 196                                 Location information, domains, 14
           Inventory Management (IM), 346                            Location Services, 122
           ISO 3166, 566                                             Locations, standardization, 500
           Isolation, 196                                            Logical Architecture, 97
           IT Administrator role, 525                                Logical Observation Identifiers, Names and Codes
           IT Architecture and Operations, 492                        (LOINC), 375, 567
           IT governance versus data governance, 484                 Logical SOA security architecture
           IT infrastructure reuse, 65–66                              Business Security Services, 188
           IT Manager role, 528                                        IT Security Services, 188
           IT Operator role, 523–524                                   overview, 187–188
           IT risks                                                    Security Policy Management, 188
              denial of service, 172                                   service tiers, 188
              operational, 172                                         SOA Security Reference Model, 199, 200
              Regulatory and Compliance, 172–173                     Logical SOA security architecture, reference model
              Reputational Risks, 173                                 capabilities
           IT (Information Technology) Security Services               Business Security Services, 188–192
              reference model capabilities, SOA security architec-     IT (Information Technology) Security Services,
                ture, 192–195                                            193–195
              SOA Security Reference Model, applying,                  policy management, 196–197
                204–211                                                security enablers, 195–196
           Item Specialist Manager role, 518                           security policy management, 197–199
           Item Specialist role, 496, 517, 518–519                   LOINC (Logical Observation Identifiers, Names and
           Item/category specialists, 484                             Codes), 375, 567
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd      5/9/08      11:20 AM       Page 607




           Index                                                                                                         607



           M                                                           Master Data Management Services Architecture
                                                                        Building Block, 117
           Malware protection, 192, 196
                                                                       Master data model, telecommunications industry,
           Managed environments, 23–24
                                                                        425–429
           Management
                                                                       Master Data Repository
            and governance, service granularity, 70, 72
                                                                         Coexistence Hub Pattern, 246
            SOA enterprise architecture, 63
                                                                         componentization, 77
           Market innovation, 50
                                                                         Definition Master Data, 132–133
           Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), 551
                                                                         diagram, 133
           Married names, standardization, 500
                                                                         History Data, 132–133
           Master data
                                                                         Instance Master Data, 132–133
            authoring/enrichment, 359
                                                                         IT Security Services, 209
            as authoritative source, 107
                                                                         Master Data, 132–133
            categories, 13–15
                                                                         MDM Conceptual Architecture, 109
            cleansing. See Data cleansing.
                                                                         MDM Logical Architecture, 117
            copies of records. See System of reference.
                                                                         metadata, 132–133
            definition, 35
                                                                         overview, 132
            distribution characteristics, 234
                                                                         Reference Data, 132–133
            domains, 12–16
                                                                         Registry Hub Pattern, 239
            entering, 359
                                                                       Master Data Schema Services, 126
            initial load, 359
                                                                       Master entity relationships, 22
            initial load, patterns for. See Coexistence Hub Pattern;
                                                                       Master Patient Index (MPI), 377–378
              Initial Load Pattern; Registry Hub Pattern.
                                                                       Master Patient Index Solution Blueprint for Healthcare
            integrity and synchronization, 459
                                                                         advantages, 389–390
            original records. See System of record.
                                                                         alternatives, 390
            qualification and validation, 261
                                                                         B2B patterns, 378
            quality, measuring, 406–409
                                                                         B2C patterns, 378
            quality and consistency, 107
                                                                         business context, 373–378
            quality baseline, 407
                                                                         business patterns, 378
            received from suppliers, 359
                                                                         consistent patient information, 389
            repository for. See Master Data Repository.
                                                                         cost reductions, 389
            single point of access. See Coexistence
                                                                         extensions, 390
              Hub Pattern.
                                                                         Information Aggregation patterns, 378
           Master data, authoring and maintenance
                                                                         standards and organizations, 375
            MDM UI, 469–473
                                                                         tailored services and products, 389
            SAP UI, 463–469
                                                                       Matching
           Master data, management and regulations, 539–558
                                                                         critical data, 503
           Master Data Development role
                                                                         master data, 38
            Category Manager, 517–518
                                                                       Matching Services
            Category Specialist, 517, 518
                                                                         Identity Analytics Services, 137
            Item Specialist, 517, 518–519
                                                                         Information Integration Services, 135
            Item Specialist Manager, 518
                                                                       Maturity levels, data governance, 487
            overview, 516–517
                                                                       MDI (Master Data Integration), 261–265
           Master Data Event Management Services
                                                                       MDM (Master Data Management)
            Critical Data Management, 128
                                                                         authoritative master data, 4–5
            diagram, 128
                                                                         goal of, 5
            Notification, 128–129
                                                                         introduction, 1–4
            overview, 127–128
                                                                       MDM Architecture Blueprints, 303
           Master Data Harmonization, 104–105
                                                                       MDM Architecture Patterns. See also Patterns;
           Master Data Integration (MDI), 261–265
                                                                        specific patterns.
           Master Data Lifecycle Management, 102–103, 107
                                                                         Attributes, 232–234
           Master Data Management Event Management Services
                                                                         categories of, 229–231
            Coexistence Hub Pattern, 245
                                                                         Coexistence Hub systems, 229–231
            MDM Logical Architecture, 117
                                                                         definition, 219
           Master Data Management Services
                                                                         forces and constraints, 234
            IaaS (information as a service), 84
                                                                         legacy environments, 234
            MDM Conceptual Architecture, 109
                                                                         master data distribution characteristics, 234
            MDM Logical Architecture, 115–116
                                                                         MDM Hub systems, 229–231. See also MDM Hub
            MDM Solution, 111–112
                                                                           Patterns.
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd    5/9/08     11:20 AM      Page 608




           608                                                                                                    Index



           MDM Architecture Patterns. (Continued )                MDM Master Data Event Management Services.
             overview, 226–227, 229–231                            See Master Data Event Management Services.
             Registry Hub, 229–231                                MDM Master Data Repository. See Master Data
             synchronization aspects, 234                          Repository.
             types, 227–231                                       MDM Reference Architecture
           MDM as a service                                         architecture principles, 110–114
             adaptability, 87–90                                    architectural framework, 110
             areas of growth, 88–89                                 architectures, 93, 94
             evolvability, 87–90                                    Component Model, 97. See also MDM Component
             flexibility, 87–90                                       Model.
             overview, 86                                           Conceptual Architecture, 96–97, 99–106
             SOA enabler, 86                                        Logical Architecture, 97
             without SOA, 87                                        MDM Component Interaction Diagrams, 141–162
           MDM assets, 174–175                                      MDM Component Relationship Diagram, 139–141
           MDM Authoring Services. See Authoring Services.          MDM Conceptual Architecture, 107–109
           MDM Base Services. See Base Services.                    MDM Logical Architecture, 114–117
           MDM Component Model                                      overview, 95–98
             Authoring Services, 125–127                            reference architectures, 94
             Base Services, 130–132                               MDM services, componentization, 77
             Data Quality Management Services, 124–125            MDM Services Implementation, 208–209
             Hierarchy and Relationship Management Services,      MDM SOA Services Layer, 208
               129, 130                                           MDM Solution Blueprints. See also MDM Architecture
             Identity Analytics Services, 136–138                  Blueprints.
             Information Integration Services, 134–136            MDM Solution design, 99
             Interface Services, 119–121                          MDM Solution guidelines, 142–145
             Lifecycle Management Services, 121–123               MDM Solutions. See MDM Architecture Blueprints.
             Master Data Event Management Services, 127–129         architecture, 302
             Master Data Repository, 132–133                        architecture principles. See Architecture principles,
             overview, 119                                            MDM Solutions.
           MDM Component Relationship Diagram, 139                  best practices, 302–303
           MDM Conceptual Architecture. 106–109                     key components, 302–304
             diagram, 108                                           products and technologies, 302
             key building blocks, 108–109                         MDM strategy, 302
           MDM Data Quality Management Services. See Data         MDM systems
            Quality Management Services.                            Absolute Consistency, 24–25
           MDM Hierarchy and Relationship Management                accounts domain, 13–15
            Services. See Hierarchy and Relationship Management     business benefits. See Business benefits of MDM.
            Services.                                               categorizing data. See Data categories.
           MDM Hub Patterns, 242–249                                Convergent Consistency, 24–25
             Coexistence Hub, 242–249                               data consistency, 24–25
             comparison of, 253–256                                 implementation styles. See Implementing MDM systems.
             completeness, 253                                      location information, 14
             consistency, 253                                       master data domains, 13–15
             correctness, 253                                       methods of use. See Methods of use.
             disaster recovery, 256–259                             Multiform MDM, 12
             high availability, 256–259                             parties domain, 13–15
             Registry Hub, 236–242                                  products domain, 13–15
             Transaction Hub, 229–230, 249–253                      software products for, 535
           MDM Hub systems, 229–231                               MDM user roles. See User roles.
           MDM Integration Blueprints                             MDM versus DW, 443–444
             data warehouse systems. See DW (Data Warehouse)      MDM-BI Analytical System Integration Pattern, 291–295
               Systems for MDM Integration Blueprint.               AML → CDI Pattern, 293
             introduction, 441–442                                  BI Analytical Systems ↔ AML Pattern, 293
             SAP applications. See SAP Application Integration      BI Analytical Systems → CDI Pattern, 293
               Blueprint.                                           CDI ↔ AML Pattern, 293
           MDM Interface Services. See Interface Services.          CDI ↔ BI Analytical Systems Pattern, 293
           MDM Lifecycle Management Services. See Lifecycle         CDI → BI Analytical Systems Pattern, 293
            Management Services.                                  MDM-CDI Solution Blueprints. See CDI-MDM Solution
           MDM Logical Architecture, 114–118                       Blueprints.
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08      11:20 AM      Page 609




           Index                                                                                                        609



           MDM-CRM Integration Pattern, 295–301                      MPI (Master Patient Index), 377–378
            CRM systems with MDM Hub Patterns, 301                   MTBF (Mean Time Between Failure), 257
            ERP systems with MDM Hub Patterns, 301                   MTTF (Mean Time To Failure), 257
            MDM as the “Golden Middle,” 299–300                      MTTR (Mean Time To Recovery), 257
           MDM-DW Integration Pattern, 287–290                       Multiform MDM, 12
           MDM-ERP Integration Pattern, 295–301
            CRM systems with MDM Hub Patterns, 301                   N
            ERP systems with MDM Hub Patterns, 301                   Name attribute, 232
            MDM as the “Golden Middle,” 299–300                      Name changes, standardization
           MDM–PIM Solution Blueprints. See PIM–MDM Solution           cultural representations, 500
            Blueprints.                                                locations, 500
           Mean Time Between Failure (MTBF), 257                       by marriage, 500
           Mean Time To Failure (MTTF), 257                            organizational names, 500
           Mean Time To Recovery (MTTR), 257                           personal names, 500
           Measuring data quality, 498                                 by personal preference, 500
           Medical management processes, 376                           product names, 500
           Member management, healthcare, 373                        Network assets, telecommunications industry, 427–429
           Mergers and acquisitions, change management, 51           New customer account
           Message Gateway, 366                                        banking & insurance, 399–401, 405–406
           Messaging Patterns, 283–285                                 telecommunications industry, 433–435
           Messaging Services                                        New Product Introduction (NPI). See NPI (New Product
            Identity Analytics Services, 137                          Introduction).
            MDM Interface Services, 121                              New Product Introduction (NPI) Solution Blueprint.
           Metadata                                                   See NPI (New Product Introduction) Solution Blueprint.
            annotation of, 263                                       New York State Insurance Regulation, 551
            description, 33–34                                       NGOSS (New Generation Operations System
            Initial Load Pattern, 263                                 and Software), 432
            Master Data Repository, 132–133                          Nicknames, standardization, 499–500
            regarding Data Models, 263                               Non-repudiation services, 190
           Metadata Services, 84                                     Notification Services
           Methods of use                                              Identity Analytics Services, 138
            Analytical pattern, 16, 21–23                              MDM Master Data Event Management Services,
            Collaborative Authoring pattern15–17, 19                     128–129
            Operational pattern, 16–17, 19–20                        NPI (New Product Introduction)
            overview, 15–17                                            consumer electronics, 3, 311–316, 320–325
           MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), 551     pharmaceuticals, 377
           Misspellings, standardization, 500                        NPI (New Product Introduction) Solution Blueprint,
           Mitigation of risk, 170                                    311–328
           MLLP (Minimal Lower Level Protocol), 567                    advantages, 326–327
           Mobile medical services, 388                                alternatives, 327–328
           Model Workflow Services, 132                                business context, 311–316
           Modularity and loose coupling                               component interaction diagrams, 322–326
            definition, 72                                             e-commerce product discontinuance process, 322
            external modularity, 74–75                                 e-commerce product maintenance process, 321
            internal modularity, 74                                    end user, data access process, 325–326
            modularity of the total solution, 74–75                    extensions, 327–328
            overview, 73–74                                            mandatory components, 318–319
            Tangram puzzle, 73                                         NPI process, 320–324
           Monitoring and reporting, 199                               optional components, 319–320
           Monitoring and tracking                                     product discontinuance process, 321
            analytical method of use, 82–83                            product maintenance process, 321
            collaborative method of use, 82                            relevant business patterns, 316–317
            deployment styles, 83                                      solution-specific components, 319
            master data domain, 82                                     supplier/vendor creation process, 322
            methods of use, 82–83                                      workflow, 320–322
            operational method of use, 82
            overview, 81–82                                          O
            SOA enterprise architecture, 63                          OASIS XACML, 198
           Monitoring in the project lifecycle, 498                  ODS (operational data store), 26–27
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd      5/9/08      11:20 AM      Page 610




           610                                                                                                       Index



           OFAC (Office of Foreign Assets Control), See Office of   Patterns. See also MDM Architecture Patterns; specific
            Foreign Assets Control                                   patterns.
           OFAC SDN List, 552                                         80/20 rule, 221–222
           Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)                    advantages of, 222–223
             Fraud and Theft Solution Blueprint for Banking           best practices, 223
               and Insurance, 416                                     business flexibility, improving, 222–223
             regulatory compliance, 44                                composition, 302–304
           OHF (Open Healthcare Framework), 375, 568                  cost reduction, 223
           OLAP (Online Analytical Processing), 444                   definition, 221
           OLTP (Online Transaction Processing), 444                  deployment acceleration, 222
           On-demand business, 66                                     examples, 225–226
           Online banking, 401–402                                    introduction, 219–221
           Online resources, 536–537                                  quality, improving, 222
           ONS (Object Naming Service), 349, 567                      selection, 302–304
           Open standards, 112, 568                                   types of patterns, 223–225
           Operational analytics, 22                                PCI-DSS (Payment Card Industry–Data Security
           Operational Data Stewards, 484, 496, 519–521              Standard), 552
           Operational MDM, 100                                     PDMA (Prescription Drug Marketing Act), 47, 555
           Operational pattern/method of use, 82                    PDP (Policy Decision Point), 198–199
             definition, 16                                         PDQ (Patient Demographic Query), 384
             description, 19–20                                     Pedigree compliance, 355
             Operational Scenario—Federated Query, 151–153          PEP (Policy Enforcement Point), 198–199
             Operational Scenario—Transactional Interception        Performance, service granularity, 69–70, 71
               for Updates, 148–151                                 Personal Information Protection and Electronic
           Operational risks, 172                                    Documents Act (PIPEDA) of 2000, 555
           Operations, user roles, 519–527                          Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) of 2003, 554
           Orchestration, SOA enterprise architecture, 61           Personal names, standardization, 500
           Organizational names, standardization, 500               Personally Identifiable Information (PII). See PII
           Out-of-stock problems, 344–345                            (personally identifiable information).
           Ownership, 69, 111                                       Pharmaceutical industry, tracking pharmaceuticals.
                                                                     See PIM-RFID Solution Blueprint for Track & Trace.
           P                                                        PHI (Protected Health Information), 375, 568
           Part 7 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, 552            Physical security, 367
           Partner management, 374                                  PII (Personally Identifiable Information)
           Party domain                                               Privacy, 214–216
             critical matching data, 503                              rules for handling, 173–174
             de-duplicating, 502–503                                PIM (Product Information Management)
             definition, 14                                           versus CDI domain, 13
             MDM Lifecycle Management, 122                            MDM solutions. See PIM-MDM Solution Blueprints.
             Organizational Party domain, 503                         regulatory compliance, 46–47
           Patch management, 192                                    PIM-MDM Solution Blueprints
           Patient Demographic Query (PDQ), 384                       Architecture Blueprint, 308–309
           Patient Identifier Cross-referencing query (PIX), 387      architecture selection, 309
           Patient records                                            business blueprints, 309
             consistent access, 375                                   introduction, 307–308
             consistent information, 389                              MDM Architecture Blueprint, 309
             creating, 383–386                                        MDM Solution Blueprint, 309–310
             de-duplicating, 385–386                                PIM-RFID Solution Blueprint for Track & Trace
             duplicate data, 373–374                                  advantages, 368
             electronic records (eCards), 377                         alternatives, 368–369
             inconsistent data, 373–374                               B2B pattern, 355
             MPI (Master Patient Index), 377–378                      component-level view, 358–363
             name standardization, 382–383                            deployment security, 364-368
             patient identifiers, 381                                 DPMS (Drug Pedigree Messaging Standard), 354
             PDQ (Patient Demographic Query), 384                     drug pedigree legislation, 352–355
             PIX (Patient Identifier Cross-referencing                EPC (Electronic Product Codes), 346
               query), 387                                            EPCIS event exchange, 360
             sensitive information, 383                               EPCIS (Electronic Product Codes Information
           Patriot Act of 2001, 44, 558                                 Service), 348–349
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08      11:20 AM      Page 611




           Index                                                                                                        611



             EPCIS system queries, 360–363                             HIPAA security requirements, 214
             ePedigree solutions, 354                                  master data domains, 168–169
             GDSN Network versus EPCGlobal Network, 349–352            participants, 213–214
             high-level view, 356–357                                  PII (personally identifiable information), 214–216
             mandatory components, 358                                 regulatory compliance, 45–46
             optional components, 358                                  risks, 173–174
             pedigree compliance, 355                                Privileges, deployment security, 367
             product barcodes, 346–348                               Probabilistic Matching Services, 124–125
             product serialization, 346                              Problem Analyst role, 527
             RFID (Radio Frequency Identification), 346–348          Problem statement attribute, 233, 234
             SCM (Supply Chain Management), 346                      The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, Part 7, 552
           PIPEDA (Personal Information Protection                   Process innovation, 49–50
            and Electronic Documents Act) of 2000, 555               Process manager, componentization, 77
           PIPL (Personal Information Protection Law) of 2003, 554   Process Manager choreography, 109
           PIX (Patient Identifier Cross-referencing query), 387     Process-Focused Application Integration Patterns
           Planned versus unplanned outages, 256                       diagram, 229
           Point-of-Care Decision Support, 377                         ESB Patterns, 282–283
           Point-to-point EPCIS, 349                                   introduction, 228
           Point-to-Point Pattern, 283–285                             Messaging Patterns, 283–285
           Policy                                                      Point-to-Point Pattern, 283–285
             abstraction level, 196                                    Publish/Subscribe Pattern, 283–285
             administration, 197–198                                   Transaction Interception Patterns, 231, 277–282
             aspects, 196                                            Product
             decision and enforcement, 198–199                         barcodes, 346–348
             distribution and transformation, 198                      discontinuance process, 321
             domains, 196                                              maintenance process, 321
             management lifecycle, 196                                 names, standardization, 500
           Policy, management                                          ordering process, telecommunications industry,
             reference model capabilities, SOA security                  435–436
               architecture                                            serialization, 346
                policy abstraction level, 196                          telecommunications industry, 425–427,
                policy aspects, 196                                      427–429
                policy domains, 196                                  Product domain
                policy management lifecycle, 196                       consumer electronics industry, 317
                reference model, 197                                   contents, 123
           Policy Decision Point (PDP), 198–199                        critical matching data, 503
           Policy Enforcement Point (PEP), 198–199                     de-duplication, 503
           Portlet container specification (JSR 286), 567              definition, 14
           Portlet specification (JSR 168), 567                      Product Information Management (PIM). See PIM
           Ports, telecommunications, 426                             (Product Information Management).
           Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA), 47, 555           Product Services, 123
           Presentation Services component, 140–141                  Profiling, 269–270
           Principles of MDM. See Business benefits of MDM.          Profiling Patterns, 265
           Privacy                                                   Project scope, data governance, 493–494
             audit, 214                                              Proportionality, 214
             audit trails, 214                                       Protected Health Information (PHI), 375, 568
             Business Security Services, 189–190                     Providers, healthcare, 374
             CDI (Customer Data Integration), 45–46                  Provisioning and delivery
             confidentiality services, 214                             Business Service Management layer, 80
             contract information, 168–169                             Composite Application Management layer, 80
             customer information, 168                                 deployment environment, 81
             data cleansing, 169                                       overview, 80
             data collectors, 214                                      Resource Management layer, 80
             data commissioners, 214                                   services, 81
             Data Entitlements, 214                                    SOA management layers, 80
             data silos, 167–168                                     Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor
             data subjects, 214                                       Protection Act of 2002, 555
             enrichment, 169                                         Publish and Subscribe Services, 121
             financial data, 169                                     Publish/Subscribe Pattern, 283–285
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08      11:20 AM       Page 612




           612                                                                                                        Index



           Q                                                           intrusion prevention, 196
                                                                       isolation, 196
           Quality
                                                                       IT (Information Technology) Security Services, 192–195
            accuracy, 37–38
                                                                       key management, 195
            bucketing, 38
                                                                       malware detection, 192
            completeness, 38–39
                                                                       malware protection, 196
            consistency, 39–40
                                                                       monitoring and reporting, 199
            data stewardship, 38
                                                                       non-repudiation services, 190
            data validation, 38
                                                                       patch management, 192
            de-duplication, 38
                                                                       PDP (Policy Decision Point), 198–199
            IaaS (information as a service), 85
                                                                       PEP (Policy Enforcement Point), 198–199
            master data, 37–41
                                                                       policy abstraction level, 196
            matching, 38
                                                                       policy administration, 197–198
            relevance, 40–41
                                                                       policy aspects, 196
            timeliness, 40
                                                                       policy decision and enforcement, 198–199
            trust, 41
                                                                       policy distribution and transformation, 198
            of service, SOA enterprise architecture, 63
                                                                       policy domains, 196
           Query, Search, and Reporting component, 141
                                                                       policy management lifecycle, 196
           Query Management Services, 136
                                                                       policy management, 196–197
                                                                       privacy, 189–190
           R                                                           reference model, 197
           Radio Frequency Identification (RFID). See RFID (Radio      registries and repositories, 195
            Frequency Identification).                                 re-validation, 191
           Really Simple Syndication (RSS), 569                        secure systems and networks, 191–192
           Real-Time Synchronization Patterns, 274                     security enablers, 195–196
           Reconciliation Services, 124                                security policy management, 197–199
           Reduce/mitigate risk, 171–172                               SEIM (Security Event and Incident Management), 196
           Redundancy, effect on high availability, 257                service registry, 195
           Reference architectures, 94                                 Trust Management, 191
           Reference data, 34–35, 132–133                              user self-care, 191
           Reference model, 197                                      Registries and repositories, 195
           Reference model capabilities, SOA security architecture   Registry Hub Pattern
             approvals, 190                                            Base Services, 239
             Audit Services, 195                                       Data Quality Management Services, 239
             Authentication Services, 193–194                          Interface Services, 239
             Authorization Services, 194                               Lifecycle Management Services, 239
             Business Security Services, 188–192                       Master Data Repository, 239
             CMDB (Configuration Management Database), 195             MDM Hub Patterns, 236–242
             compliance and reporting, 188–189                       Registry implementation, 27–29
             Confidentiality Services, 194                           Regulations. See Master data, management and
             cryptographic hardware, 195                              regulations.
             cryptographic key management, 195                       Regulatory and Compliance risks, 172–173
             cryptography, 195                                       Regulatory motives, 412
             data protection management, 189–190                     Relationship management
             delegated administration, 191                             Cross- and Up-Sell Solution Blueprint for Banking &
             Directory Server, 195                                       Insurance, 403–405
             disclosure control, 189–190                               healthcare systems, 382–383
             firewalls, 192, 196                                     Relationship Management Services, 138
             hardened operating systems, 192                         Relationship Services
             hardware key storage, 195                                 MDM Authoring Services, 127
             identity and access services, 190                         MDM Hierarchy and Relationship Management
             identity feed, 190                                          Services, 130
             Identity Foundation, 193                                Relevance
             identity lifecycle management, 190–191                    data quality, 497
             Identity Propagation, 193                                 of master data, 40–41
             Identity Provisioning, 193                              Relevant events, 393–394
             Identity Services, 193                                  Replication Services, 135
             Integrity Services, 194–195                             Reputation risk, 173, 176, 412
             intrusion detection, 192, 196                           Requirements variation, 68
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08      11:20 AM      Page 613




           Index                                                                                                         613



           Resilience Engineer role, 524                              master data integrity and synchronization, 459
           Resolution Services, 137                                   MDM and SAP UI, master data authoring and
           Resource Management layer, 80                                maintenance, 474
           Resource Owner role, 522                                   MDM UI, master data authoring and maintenance,
           REST (Representational State Transfer), 569                  469–473
           Retailer subscriptions, 332                                SAP UI, master data authoring and maintenance,
           Reuse                                                        462–469
             code, 64–65. See also Patterns.                          transforming code tables, 462
             commitment, 67–68                                        transforming the data model, 462
             IT infrastructure reuse, 65–66                         SAP BAPI interfaces, 471
             ownership, 69                                          SAP Java Connector, 471
             predicting the future, 68                              SAP Netweaver PI, 471
             requirements variation, 68                             Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX), 44, 555
             roadblocks to, 67–69                                   SB 1386 (California Security Breach Information Act), 542
             services, 65–67, 110                                   Scalability
           Reverse Proxy, 364                                         MDM Conceptual Architecture, 107
           Reverse Proxy component, 140                               MDM Solution, 113
           RFID (Radio Frequency Identification)                    SCM (Supply Chain Management), 346
             authenticity, deployment security, 367–368             Scoring risks, 176
             data capture, 359–360                                  SDN (Specially Designated Nationals) List, 552
             pharmaceutical track & trace. See PIM-RFID Solution    Search Services, 132
               Blueprint for Track & Trace.                         Secure communication, deployment security, 364
             regulatory compliance, 47                              Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), 569
             standards, 568                                         Secure systems and networks, 191–192
           Risk Analysis for MDM, 174                               Security
           Risk officer, 403                                          applications, 366
           Risks. See also Information Risk Analysis; Information     auditing, 366
            Risk Management; Logical SOA security architecture.       audits, 367
             accepting, 172                                           authentication, 365, 366
             banking & insurance, 393–394                             authorization, 365, 366
             credit, mitigation, 46                                   contract information, 168–169
             data governance, 488, 492                                customer information, 168
             detecting with business rule, 403                        data cleansing, 169
             healthcare, 375                                          data silos, 167–168
             healthcare systems, 375                                  deployment, 364–368
             mitigation, 170–172                                      diagram, 363
             operational, 172                                         DMZ (Demilitarized Zone), 364
             privacy, 173–174                                         enrichment, 169
             reduction categories, 171–172                            financial data, 169
             Regulatory and Compliance, 172–173                       firewalls, 364
             reputational, 173, 176                                   identity transformation and propagation, 365–366
             scoring, 176                                             master data domains, 168–169
             standards and organizations, 375                         MDM Solution, 113
             transferring, 172                                        Message Gateway, 366
           RMI Services, 120                                          overview, 363
           Roll-up Services, 130                                      physical security, 367
           RoV (Rules of Visibility), 130–131, 209, 214               PII (personally identifiable information), 168
           RSS (Really Simple Syndication), 569                       privileges, 367
           Runtime patterns, 224                                      Reverse Proxy, 364
                                                                      RFID authenticity, 367–368
           S                                                          secure communication, 364
           SAML (Security Assertions Markup Language), 569            SOA enterprise architecture, 63
           SAP Application Integration Blueprint                      software products for, 535–536
             adapters/connectors, 463, 470                            supplier information, 168–169
             compensation transactions, 462                           unreleased product details, 169
             deleting duplicates, 461                                 unusual event detection, 367
             forces, 458–462                                          vendor information, 168–169
             integration on the glass, 457                            Web Services Gateway, 366
             introduction, 455–458                                  Security & Privacy Services, 130–131
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd    5/9/08     11:20 AM      Page 614




           614                                                                                                       Index



           Security Administrator role, 526–527                     billing plans, 425–426
           Security Assertions Markup Language (SAML), 569          Blueprint overview, 432–437
           Security considerations in MDM                           business context, 425-429
             access management, 183                                 business patterns versus architecture patterns, 431–432
             audit, 180, 185–186                                    business patterns, 431
             audit trail, definition, 180                           components, 432
             authenticated identity, 182                            customer creation, 433–435
             authentication, definition, 179–180                    customer, 425–427, 427–429
             Authentication Services, 183                           diagram, 433
             authorization, 180,183–185                             eTOM (enhanced Telecom Operations Map), 432
             confidentiality, definition, 179                       extensions, 437
             data protection, 186–187                               homezone areas, 425
             identity, definition, 179                              integration with external systems, 436–437
             identity management, 183                               location, 425–427, 427–429
             identity mapping, 180, 182–183                         master data model, 425–429
             identity propagation, 180, 182–183                     network assets, 427–429
             identity provisioning, 180, 182–183                    NGOSS (New Generation Operations System
             Identity Services, 183                                   and Software), 432
             identity token, 180                                    on-demand services, 428
             integrity, definition, 179                             overview, 424–425
             MDM Reference Architecture, 180–181                    ports, 426
             PDP (Policy Decision Point), 180                       product ordering process, 435–436
             PEP (Policy Enforcement Point), 180                    product, 425–427, 427–429
             policies, definition, 179                              self-service, customer perspective, 429–430
             Policy Management, 183                                 self-service, provider perspective, 430–431
             reverse proxy, 180                                     subscribed services, 428
             sign-on, 180                                           workflows, 433–437
             trust management, 183                                Serialization
             user registry, 180                                     open standard, 346
           Security enablers                                        pharmaceutical products, 346
             CMDB (Configuration Management Database), 195        Serialized product movement, 346
             cryptographic hardware, 195                          Service brokers, 59
             cryptographic key management, 195                    Service components
             cryptography, 195                                      MDM Logical Architecture, 117
             Directory Server, 195                                  SOA enterprise architecture, 62
             firewalls, 196                                       Service consumers, 59, 207–208
             hardware key storage, 195                            Service contracts, 59
             intrusion detection, 196                             Service definitions, 59
             intrusion prevention, 196                            Service description, 59
             isolation, 196                                       Service granularity
             key management, 195                                    business mapping, 69, 70–71
             malware protection, 196                                management and governance, 70, 72
             registries and repositories, 195                       overview, 69
             SEIM (Security Event and Incident Management), 196     performance, 69–70, 71
             service registry, 195                                  transaction scope, 70, 71–72
             time, 196                                            Service identification and categorization, 79–80
           Security policy management                             Service innovation, 49
             monitoring and reporting, 199                        Service patterns, 223
             overview, 197                                        Service providers, 59
             PDP (Policy Decision Point), 198–199                 Service Registry and Repository (SRR), 34, 195
             PEP (Policy Enforcement Point), 198–199              Service Registry component, 141
             policy administration, 197–198                       Service representative call
             policy decision and enforcement, 198–199               Cross- and Up-Sell Solution Blueprint for Banking &
             policy distribution and transformation, 198              Insurance, 401–402
           Security Token Service (STS), 205–206                  Service reuse, 65–67
           SEIM (Security Event and Incident Management), 196     Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA). See SOA (Service-
           Self-Service Website Solution Blueprint for Telco       Oriented Architecture).
             advantages, 437                                      Service-oriented design, 113
             alternatives, 437                                    Service-oriented enterprise (SOE), 57
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd     5/9/08     11:20 AM      Page 615




           Index                                                                                                    615



           Services                                             SOA Runtime patterns, 225
             IaaS (information as a service), 84                SOA Security Reference Model, applying
             provisioning and delivery, 81                         attribute groups, 201
             SOA enterprise architecture, 61–62                    Business Security Services, 202–204
           Shrinkage, 345                                          confidentiality, 202
           SID (Shared Information/Data Model), 570                SOA Security Reference Model diagram, 200
           SNOMED (Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine),         integrity, 202
             375, 570                                              IT (Information Technology) Security Services, 204–211
           Snowflake schemas, 21                                   security considerations: implementation styles and
           SOA (Service-Oriented Architecture), 20, 26, 34           methods of use, 212–213
             applicable MDM principles, 56–57                      Security Enablers, 200–202, 211–212
             application services, 62                           SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol), 78, 570
             business person perspective, 58                    Social engineering, 178
             business processes, 61                             Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
             business state machine, 61                           Telecommunication (SWIFT), 570
             choreography, 61                                   SOE (service-oriented enterprise), 57
             composition, 61                                    Software products
             consumers, 60–61                                      analytical services, 534
             data repositories, 63                                 ESB, enterprise application integration, 534
             definition, 58                                        external data providers, 534
             design principles, MDM compliance with, 112           information integration services, 535
             developer perspective, 58                             links to relevant pages, 536–537
             diagram, 60                                           MDM Systems, 535
             Enterprise Architect perspective, 58                  security, 535–536
             enterprise architecture, 60-62                        Track & Trace solutions, 536
             ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), 63                   Solution Architect role, 512–514
             governance, 64                                     Solution attribute, 233, 234
             information services, 63                           Solution considerations, 495
             integration, 63                                    Solution development, user roles
             introduction, 57–59                                   Business Analyst, 512
             layers, 60–64                                         Developer, 514–516
             management layers, 80                                 Master Data Development, 516–519
             management, 63                                        Solution Architect, 512–514
             monitoring, 63                                        Test Engineer, 516
             necessary characteristics, 58–59                   Solution evaluation, user roles, 511
             orchestration, 61                                  Solution Users role, 528
             overview, 55–57                                    Solvency II, 44, 557
             quality of service, 63                             Source of business information, 107
             security, 63                                       SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), 44, 555
             service brokers, 59                                Specially Designated Nationals (SDN) List, 552
             service components, 62                             Split Services, 125
             service consumers, 59                              SRR (Service Registry and Repository), 34
             service contracts, 59                              SSL (Secure Sockets Layer), 569
             service definitions, 59                            Stakeholders, 492
             service description, 59                            Standardization
             service providers, 59                                 abbreviations, 499
             services, 61–62                                       business processes, 113
           SOA (Service-Oriented Architecture), influence          data quality, 497
             on MDM                                                data reuse, 110
             compliance with standards, 78–79                      misspellings, 500
             componentization, 76–77                               name changes. 500
             composability, 75–76                                  nicknames, 499–500
             modularity and loose coupling, 72–75               Standardization Services, 135
             monitoring and tracking, 82–83                     Standards and organizations
             provisioning and delivery, 80–81                      ACORD association, 79
             reuse, 64–69                                          BPEL (Business Process Execution Language), 78
             service granularity, 69–72                            GDS (Global Data Synchronization), 79
             service identification and categorization, 79–80      GDSN (Global Data Synchronization Network), 79
           SOA governance versus data governance, 484              healthcare, 375
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd    5/9/08     11:20 AM     Page 616




           616                                                                                                   Index



           Standards and organizations (Continued )                SID (Shared Information/Data Model), 570
             JMS (Java Message Service), 78                        SNOMED (Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine), 570
             MDM Solution, 110, 112                                SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol), 570
             SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol), 78              SSL (Secure Sockets Layer), 569
             WSDL (Web Service Description Language), 78           SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
             XML (Extensible Markup Language), 78                    Telecommunication), 570
           Standards and specifications                            UNSPSC (United Nations Standard Products and
             1SYNC, 559                                              Services Code), 571
             2PC (two-phase commit protocol), 571                  WS-Addressing (Web Services Addressing), 571
             ACORD (Association for Cooperative Operations         WS-CDL (Web Services Choreography Definition
               Research and Development), 560                        Language), 571
             AES (Advanced Encryption Standard), 559               WSDL (Web Service Description Language), 571
             ALE (Application Level Events), 559                   WS-Management, 573
             ARTS (Association for Retail Technology               WS-Policy (Web Services Policy), 572
               Standards), 560                                     WSRP (Web Services for Remote Portals), 572
             ATNA (Audit Trail and Node Authentication), 560       WS-Security (Web Services Security SOAP Message
             BPEL (Business Process Execution Language), 560         Security), 572
             DES (Data Encryption Standard), 560                   WS-Security Policy (Web Services Security Policy
             DNS (Domain Name System), 561                           Language), 572
             Document Model ePedigree, 561                         WS-Trust (Web Services Trust), 573
             DPMS (Drug Pedigree Messaging Standard), 561          XA (XA compliance), 573
             EAN.UCC (International Article Numbering.Uniform      XACML (eXtensible Access Control Markup
               Code Council), 561                                    Language), 562
             EDI (Electronic Data Interchange), 561                XML (eXtensible Markup Language), 563
             EPC (Electronic Product Codes), 562                   XSD (XML Schema Definition), 573
             EPC Radio Frequency Identification Protocol, 562   Star schemas, 21, 444
             EPCGlobal, 562                                     Stovepipe applications, 67
             FTP (File Transfer Protocol), 563                  Strategist role, 511
             GDD (Global Data Dictionary), 563                  STS (Security Token Service), 205–206
             GDS (Global Data Synchronization), 564             Supplier/vendor creation process, 322
             GDSN (Global Data Synchronization Network), 564    Supply chain innovation, 50–51
             GLN (Global Location Number), 564                  Supply Chain Management (SCM), 344–345
             GPC (Global Product Classification), 564           SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
             GS1 Global Registry, 565                             Telecommunication), 570
             GTIN (Global Trade Identification Number), 565     Synchronization of data. See also Global data
             HL7 (Health Level 7), 565                            synchronization.
             HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol), 565               Initial Load Pattern, 270
             HTTPS (HyperText Transfer Protocol Secured            MDM data model changes, 248
               over Secure Sockets Layer), 565                     patterns for
             IEEE (IEEE Std 1471–2000), 566                           See Synchronization Patterns
             IFX (Interactive Financial eXchange), 566                See Transaction Interception Pattern
             IHE (Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise), 566      unidirectional versus bilateral, 248
             ISO 3166, 566                                      Synchronization Patterns, 267
             J2EE (Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition), 566     System of record, 23–24
             JMS (Java Message Service), 566                    System of reference, 23–24
             JSR 168 (portlet specification), 567               Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (SNOMED),
             JSR 286 (portlet container specification), 567       375, 570
             The Kerberos Network Authentication Service, 567
             LOINC (Logical Observation Identifiers, Names      T
               and Codes), 567                                  Tangram puzzle, 72–74
             MLLP (Minimal Lower Level Protocol), 567           Telecommunications industry, 425–437
             OHF (Open Healthcare Framework), 568               Test Engineer role, 516
             ONS (Object Naming Service), 567                   Theft prevention. See Fraud and Theft Solution
             open standards, 568                                 Blueprint for Banking and Insurance.
             PHI (Protected Health Information), 568            3 MLD (The Third European Money Laundering
             REST (Representational State Transfer), 569         Directive), 557
             RFID (Radio Frequency Identification), 568         Third-Party Data Service Providers, 77
             RSS (Really Simple Syndication), 569                 MDM Conceptual Architecture, 108–109
             SAML (Security Assertions Markup Language), 569      MDM Logical Architecture, 116
Dreibelbis_Index.qxd      5/9/08      11:20 AM       Page 617




           Index                                                                                                       617



           Threat actors, 178                                       User roles
           Threats                                                    data governance, 484
             definition, 170                                          overview, 509–510
             evaluating, 178                                          by project phase, 529–530
             external threat actors, 178                              solution administration and operation, 511, 519–532
             hackers, 178                                             solution development, 512, 514–519
             internal threat actors, 178                              Solution Architect, 512–514
             social engineering, 178                                  Test Engineer, 516
             threat actors, 178                                     User self-care, 191
           360-degree member view, 377
           Time, security enabler, 196                              V
           Time to market, reducing, 47–48                          Validating master data
           Time-deposit financial events, 393                         clerical records, 506–507
           Timeliness                                                 exception processing, 501
             data quality, 496–497                                    standardization, names, 499–500
             Information Synchronization Patterns, 275                validation, external data, 500–501
             of master data, 40                                       validation, internal data, 499
           Tools and utilities. See Software products.              Validity, data quality, 497
           Traceability of pharmaceuticals. See PIM-RFID Solution   Value creation, data governance, 488
            Blueprint for Track & Trace.                            Versioning Services, 130
           Track & Trace solutions, 536. See also PIM-RFID          Virtualization Services, 136
            Solution Blueprint for Track & Trace.                   Visualization Services, 136–137
           Tracking. See Monitoring and tracking.                   Vulnerabilities, 170, 178
           Transaction data, 35
           Transaction Hub Pattern, 229–230, 249–253                W
           Transaction Interception Pattern, 288–299, 230,          Watch list events, 393
            277–281                                                 Web Application Services component, 141
           Transaction Logging Services, 131                        Web Services
           Transaction scope, service granularity, 70, 71–72          Identity Analytics Services, 137
           Transactional Authorization, 209, 214                      MDM Interface Services, 120
           Transactional hub implementation, 30–31                  Web Services Gateway, 141, 366
           Transactional Interception for Updates—Operational       Workbaskets, 19
            Scenario, 148–151                                       Workflow Monitoring Services, 132
           Transfer risk, 172                                       Workflow Services, 131
           Transformation Services, 135                             WS-Addressing (Web Services Addressing), 571
           Translation Services, 135                                WS-CDL (Web Services Choreography Definition
           Transora, 330                                             Language), 571
           Transparency, 214                                        WSDL (Web Service Description Language), 78, 571
           Trickle feed, 444                                        WS-Management, 573
           Trust, of master data, 41                                WS-Policy (Web Services Policy), 572
           Trust Management, 191                                    WSRP (Web Services for Remote Portals), 572
           Trusted data source, 21                                  WS-Security (Web Services Security SOAP Message
           21 CFR 11, 540                                            Security), 572
           2PC (two-phase commit protocol), 571. See XA             WS-Security Policy (Web Services Security Policy
                                                                     Language), 572
           U                                                        WS-Trust (Web Services Trust), 573
           UCCNet, replaced by 1SYNC, 330
           UDEX product classification, 333                         X
           ULAC (Use, Lose, Abuse, and Confuse) method,             XA compliance, 573. See 2PC.
            175–177                                                 XACML (eXtensible Access Control Markup Language),
           Unique-ID Generator Services, 125                         185, 198, 562
           Uniting and Strengthening America. See Patriot Act       XML (eXtensible Markup Language), 78, 563
            of 2001.                                                XML events, 348–349
           UnManaged environments, 23–24                            XML Schema Definition (XSD), 573
           UNSPSC (United Nations Standard Products and             XML Services, 120
            Services Code), 333, 571                                XSD (XML Schema Definition), 573
           Unusual event detection, 367
           Up-selling, 391. See also Cross- and Up-Sell Solution    Z
            Blueprint for Banking & Insurance.                      Zachman Framework, 482
