Data Mesh
Delivering Data-Driven Value at Scale




                                Free
                               Chapter


                           Zhamak Dehghani
                                               Data Mesh
          Delivering Data-Driven Value at Scale




This excerpt contains Chapter 1. The complete book is
available on the O’Reilly Online Learning Platform and
                 through other retailers.




                                              Zhamak Dehghani




        Beijing   Boston Farnham Sebastopol    Tokyo
Data Mesh
by Zhamak Dehghani
Copyright © 2022 Zhamak Dehghani. All rights reserved.
Printed in the United States of America.
Published by O’Reilly Media, Inc., 1005 Gravenstein Highway North, Sebastopol, CA 95472.
O’Reilly books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales promotional use. Online editions are
also available for most titles (http://oreilly.com). For more information, contact our corporate/institutional
sales department: 800-998-9938 or corporate@oreilly.com.

Acquisitions Editor: Melissa Duffield                     Indexer: Potomac Indexing, LLC
Development Editor: Gary O’Brien                          Interior Designer: David Futato
Production Editor: Beth Kelly                             Cover Designer: Karen Montgomery
Copyeditor: Charles Roumeliotis                           Illustrator: Kate Dullea
Proofreader: Kim Wimpsett

March 2022:               First Edition

Revision History for the First Edition
2022-03-08: First Release

See http://oreilly.com/catalog/errata.csp?isbn=9781492092391 for release details.

The O’Reilly logo is a registered trademark of O’Reilly Media, Inc. Data Mesh, the cover image, and
related trade dress are trademarks of O’Reilly Media, Inc.
The views expressed in this work are those of the author, and do not represent the publisher’s views.
While the publisher and the author have used good faith efforts to ensure that the information and
instructions contained in this work are accurate, the publisher and the author disclaim all responsibility
for errors or omissions, including without limitation responsibility for damages resulting from the use
of or reliance on this work. Use of the information and instructions contained in this work is at your
own risk. If any code samples or other technology this work contains or describes is subject to open
source licenses or the intellectual property rights of others, it is your responsibility to ensure that your use
thereof complies with such licenses and/or rights.
This work is part of a collaboration between O’Reilly and Thoughtworks. See our statement of editorial
independence.




978-1-098-11276-9
[LSI]
                                                                                Table of Contents




1. Data Mesh in a Nutshell. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
     The Outcomes                                                                                                                   6
     The Shifts                                                                                                                     6
     The Principles                                                                                                                 8
       Principle of Domain Ownership                                                                                                8
       Principle of Data as a Product                                                                                               9
       Principle of the Self-Serve Data Platform                                                                                   10
       Principle of Federated Computational Governance                                                                             10
     Interplay of the Principles                                                                                                   11
     Data Mesh Model at a Glance                                                                                                   12
     The Data                                                                                                                      13
       Operational Data                                                                                                            13
       Analytical Data                                                                                                             14
     The Origin                                                                                                                    15




                                                                                                                                    iii
                                                                                    CHAPTER 1
                                             Data Mesh in a Nutshell




    “Think in simples” as my old master used to say—meaning to reduce the whole to its parts in
    simplest terms, getting back to first principles.
       —Frank Lloyd Wright

Data mesh is a decentralized sociotechnical approach to share, access, and man‐
age analytical data in complex and large-scale environments—within or across
organizations.
Data mesh is a new approach in sourcing, managing, and accessing data for analytical
use cases at scale. Let’s call this class of data analytical data. Analytical data is used for
predictive or diagnostic use cases. It is the foundation for visualizations and reports
that provide insights into business. It is used to train machine learning models
that augment business with data-driven intelligence. It is the essential ingredient
for organizations to move from intuition and gut-driven decision making to taking
actions based on observations and data-driven predictions. Analytical data is what
powers the software and technology of the future. It enables a technology shift
from human-designed rule-based algorithms to data-driven machine-learned models.
Analytical data is becoming an increasingly critical component of the technology
landscape.

                 The term data in this book, if not qualified, refers to analytical
                 data. Analytical data serves reporting and machine learning train‐
                 ing use cases.




                                                                                                  5
The Outcomes
To get value from data at scale in complex and large-scale organizations, data mesh
sets to achieve these outcomes:

    • Respond gracefully to change: a business’s essential complexity, volatility, and
      uncertainty
    • Sustain agility in the face of growth
    • Increase the ratio of value from data to investment1

The Shifts
Data mesh introduces multidimensional technical and organizational shifts from
earlier analytical data management approaches.
Figure 1-1 summarizes the shifts that data mesh introduces, compared to past
approaches.
Data mesh calls for a fundamental shift in the assumptions, architecture, technical
solutions, and social structure of our organizations, in how we manage, use, and own
analytical data:

    • Organizationally, it shifts from centralized ownership of data by specialists who
      run the data platform technologies to a decentralized data ownership model
      pushing ownership and accountability of the data back to the business domains
      where data is produced from or is used.
    • Architecturally, it shifts from collecting data in monolithic warehouses and lakes
      to connecting data through a distributed mesh of data products accessed through
      standardized protocols.
    • Technologically, it shifts from technology solutions that treat data as a byproduct
      of running pipeline code to solutions that treat data and code that maintains it as
      one lively autonomous unit.
    • Operationally, it shifts data governance from a top-down centralized operational
      model with human interventions to a federated model with computational poli‐
      cies embedded in the nodes on the mesh.
    • Principally, it shifts our value system from data as an asset to be collected to data
      as a product to serve and delight the data users (internal and external to the
      organization).



1 XREF HERE unpacks the expected outcomes of data mesh, with a high level of description of how it achieves
    those outcomes.


6    |   Chapter 1: Data Mesh in a Nutshell
  • Infrastructurally, it shifts from two sets of fragmented and point-to-point inte‐
    grated infrastructure services—one for data and analytics and the other for
    applications and operational systems to a well-integrated set of infrastructure for
    both operational and data systems.




Figure 1-1. Data mesh dimensions of change


                                                                          The Shifts   |   7
Since the introduction of data mesh in my original blog post (kindly hosted by
Martin Fowler), I have noticed that people have struggled to classify the concept.
Is data mesh an architecture? Is it a list of principles? Is it an operating model?
After all, we rely on the classification of patterns2 as a major cognitive function to
understand the structure of our world. Hence, I have decided to classify data mesh
as a sociotechnical paradigm: an approach that recognizes the interactions between
people and the technical architecture and solutions in complex organizations. This is
an approach to data management that not only optimizes for the technical excellence
of analytical data sharing solutions but also improves the experience of all people
involved: data providers, users, and owners.
Data mesh can be utilized as an element of an enterprise data strategy, articulating the
target state of both the enterprise architecture and an organizational operating model
with an iterative execution model.
In the simplest form it can be described through four interacting principles. In this
chapter I give a very brief definition of these principles and how they work together.

The Principles
Four simple principles can capture what underpins data mesh’s logical architecture
and operating model. These principles are designed to progress us toward the objec‐
tives of data mesh: increase value from data at scale, sustain agility as an organization
grows, and embrace change in a complex and volatile business context.
Here is a quick summary of the principles.

Principle of Domain Ownership
Decentralize the ownership of analytical data to business domains closest to the
data—either the source of the data or its main consumers. Decompose the (analyti‐
cal) data logically and based on the business domain it represents, and manage the
life cycle of domain-oriented data independently.
Architecturally and organizationally align business, technology, and analytical data.
The motivations of domain ownership are:

    • The ability to scale out data sharing aligned with the axes of organizational
      growth: increased number of data sources, increased number of data consumers,
      and increased diversity of data use cases




2 Jeff Hawkins and Sandra Blakeslee (2005). On Intelligence (p. 165). New York: Henry Holt and Co.



8   |   Chapter 1: Data Mesh in a Nutshell
  • Optimization for continuous change by localizing change to the business
    domains
  • Enabling agility by reducing cross-team synchronizations and removing central‐
    ized bottlenecks of data teams, warehouses, and lake architecture
  • Increasing data business truthfulness by closing the gap between the real origin
    of the data, and where and when it is used for analytical use cases
  • Increasing resiliency of analytics and machine learning solutions by removing
    complex intermediary data pipelines

Principle of Data as a Product
With this principle in place, domain-oriented data is shared as a product directly with
data users—data analysts, data scientists, and so on.
Data as a product adheres to a set of usability characteristics:

  • Discoverable
  • Addressable
  • Understandable
  • Trustworthy and truthful
  • Natively accessible
  • Interoperable and composable
  • Valuable on its own
  • Secure

A data product provides a set of explicitly defined and easy to use data sharing
contracts. Each data product is autonomous, and its life cycle and model are managed
independently of others.
Data as a product introduces a new unit of logical architecture called data quan‐
tum, controlling and encapsulating all the structural components needed to share
data as a product—data, metadata, code, policy, and declaration of infrastructure
dependencies—autonomously.
The motivations of data as a product are to:

  • Remove the possibility of creating domain-oriented data silos by changing the
    relationship of teams with data. Data becomes a product that teams share rather
    than collect and silo.
  • Create a data-driven innovation culture, by streamlining the experience of dis‐
    covering and using high-quality data, peer-to-peer, without friction.


                                                                       The Principles   |   9
     • Create resilience to change with built-time and run-time isolation between data
       products and explicitly defined data sharing contracts so that changing one does
       not destabilize others.
     • Get higher value from data by sharing and using data across organizational
       boundaries.

Principle of the Self-Serve Data Platform
This principle leads to a new generation of self-serve data platform services that
empower domains’ cross-functional teams to share data. The platform services are
centered around removing friction from the end-to-end journey of data sharing,
from source to consumption. The platform services manage the full life cycle of
individual data products. They manage a reliable mesh of interconnected data prod‐
ucts. They provide mesh-level experiences such as surfacing the emergent knowledge
graph and lineage across the mesh. The platform streamlines the experience of data
users to discover, access, and use data products. It streamlines the experience of data
providers to build, deploy, and maintain data products.
The motivations of the self-serve data platform are to:

     • Reduce the total cost of decentralized ownership of data.
     • Abstract data management complexity and reduce the cognitive load of domain
       teams in managing the end-to-end life cycle of their data products.
     • Mobilize a larger population of developers—technology generalists—to embark
       on data product development and reduce the need for specialization.
     • Automate governance policies to create security and compliance standards for all
       data products.

Principle of Federated Computational Governance
This principle creates a data governance operating model based on a federated
decision-making and accountability structure, with a team composed of domain
representatives, data platform, and subject matter experts—legal, compliance, secu‐
rity, etc. The operating model creates an incentive and accountability structure that
balances the autonomy and agility of domains, with the global interoperability of the
mesh. The governance execution model heavily relies on codifying and automating
the policies at a fine-grained level, for every data product, via the platform services.
The motivations of federated computational goovernance are:

     • The ability to get higher-order value from aggregation and correlation of inde‐
       pendent yet interoperable data products



10    |   Chapter 1: Data Mesh in a Nutshell
  • Countering the undesirable consequences of domain-oriented decentralizations:
    incompatibility and disconnection of domains
  • Making it feasible to build in cross-cutting governance requirements such
    as security, privacy, legal compliance, etc., across a mesh of distributed data
    products
  • Reducing the overhead of manual synchronization between domains and the
    governance function

Interplay of the Principles
I intended for the four principles to be collectively necessary and sufficient. They
complement each other, and each addresses new challenges that may arise from
others. Figure 1-2 shows the interplay of the principles.




Figure 1-2. Four principles of data mesh and their interplay



                                                               Interplay of the Principles   |   11
For example, decentralized domain-oriented ownership of data can result in data
siloing within domains, and this can be addressed by the data as a product principle
that demands domains have an organizational responsibility to share their data with
product-like qualities inside and outside of their domain.
Similarly, the domain ownership of data products can lead to duplicated effort,
increased cost of data product ownership, and lowered data sharing productivity. In
this case, the self-serve data platform empowers the cross-functional domain teams
in sharing and using data products. The platform objective is to lower the domain
teams’ cognitive load, reduce unnecessary effort, increase domains’ productivity, and
lower the total cost of ownership.

Data Mesh Model at a Glance
Operationally you can imagine the principles in action as demonstrated in Figure 1-3.




Figure 1-3. Operating model of data mesh principles




12   |   Chapter 1: Data Mesh in a Nutshell
The domains with cross-functional teams are achieving the business domain’s goals
with digital applications and data products. Each domain shares its data and services
through contracts. Data products can be composed and owned by new domains. The
global policies are defined by a federated group composed of representatives of the
domains. The policies along with other platform services are offered as automated
capabilities.
This is a simplified operating model of data mesh.

The Data
Data mesh focuses on analytical data. It recognizes the blurry delineation of the
two modes of data, introduces a new model of tight integration of the two, and yet
respects the clear differences between them.
“What is operational data versus analytical data?” This has been a point of confusion
for early enthusiasts of data mesh. Allow me to clarify what I mean by these terms.

Operational Data
Operational data supports running the business and keeps the current state of the
business with transactional integrity. This data is captured, stored, and processed by
transactions in real time, by OLTP (online transaction processing) systems.
Operational data sits in databases of microservices, applications, or systems of
records that support business capabilities. It keeps the current state of the business.
Operational data modeling and storage are optimized for application or microservice
logic and access patterns. It is constantly updated, with read and write access to it. Its
design has to account for multiple people updating the same data at the same time in
unpredictable sequences, which results in a need for transactions. The access is also
about relatively in-the-moment activity.
Operational data is referred to as “data on the inside”. It is the private data of an
application or a microservice that performs CRUD (create, update, delete) operations
on it. Operational data can be intentionally shared on the outside through APIs—e.g.,
REST, GraphQL, or events. The operational data on the outside has the same nature
as the operational data on the inside: it is what we know about the business, now.
Operational data is recording what happens in the business, supporting decisions that
are specific to the business transaction. In short, operational data is used directly to
run the business and serve the end users.




                                                                            The Data   |   13
Imagine Daff. Its listener registration service implements the business function of
subscribing new users or unsubscribing them. The transactional database that sup‐
ports the registration process and keeps the current list of subscribers is considered
operational data.
Today, operational data is collected and then transformed into analytical data. Ana‐
lytical data trains the machine learning models that then make their way into the
operational systems as intelligent services.

Analytical Data
This is the historical, integrated, and aggregate view of data created as the byproduct
of running the business. It is maintained and used by OLAP (online analytical
processing) systems.
Analytical data is the temporal, historic, and often aggregated view of the facts of
the business over time. It is modeled to provide retrospective or future-perspective
insights. Analytical data is optimized for analytical logic—training machine learning
models and creating reports and visualizations. Analytical data is part of the “data on
the outside” category, data directly accessed by analytical consumers.
Analytical data has a sense of history. Analytical use cases require looking for com‐
parisons and trends over time, while a lot of operational uses don’t require much
history.
Analytical access mode tends to include intensive reads across a large body of data,
with fewer writers. The original definition of analytical data as a nonvolatile, integra‐
ted, time-variant collection of data3 still remains valid.
In short, analytical data is used to optimize the business and user experience. This is
the data that fuels the organization’s AI and analytics aspirations.
For example, in the case of Daff it’s important to optimize the listeners’ experience
with playlists recommended based on their music taste and favorite artists. The
analytical data that helps train the playlist recommendation machine learning model
captures all the past behavior of the listener as well as all characteristics of the music
the listener has favored. This aggregated and historical view is analytical data.
Today, analytical data is stored in a data warehouse or lake.




3 Definition provided by William H. Inmon, known as the father of data warehousing.



14   |   Chapter 1: Data Mesh in a Nutshell
The Origin
    To reject one paradigm without simultaneously substituting another is to reject science
    itself.
       —Thomas S. Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions

Thomas Kuhn, an American historian and philosopher of science, introduced the
paradigm shift in his at the time rather controversial book, The Structure of Scien‐
tific Revolutions (1962). He observed how science progressed in two main modes:
incremental and revolutionary; science progressed through long stretches of legato
normal science where the existing theories form the foundation of all further research,
followed by the occasional disruption of staccato paradigm shifts that challenged and
transcended the existing knowledge and norm. For example, the progress of science
from Newtonian mechanics to quantum mechanics is considered a paradigm shift as
scientists could no longer explain the governing laws of physics at the quantum level
with the existing theories. Kuhn recognized that a prerequisite for a paradigm shift
is identifying anomalies, observations that don’t fit the existing norm, and entering
the phase of crisis, questioning the validity of the existing paradigm in solving the
new problems and observations. He also observed that people try, with increasing
desperation, to introduce unsustainable complexities into the existing solutions to
account for anomalies.
This almost perfectly fits the origin of data mesh and its principles. It came from the
recognition of anomalies—failure modes and accidental complexities that I describe
in XREF HERE—and moments of crisis where the characteristics of the existing data
solutions didn’t quite fit the realities of enterprises today. We are in a moment of
Khunian crisis in the progression of our approach for data. Hence, there is a need for
a new paradigm.
I wish I could claim that data mesh principles were novel and new and I cleverly
came up with them. On the contrary, the principles of data mesh are a generalization
and adaptation of practices that have evolved over the last two decades and proved
to solve our last complexity challenge: scale of software complexity led by the mass
digitization of organizations.
These principles are the foundation of how digital organizations have solved organi‐
zational growth and complexity, while delivering unprecedented digital aspirations:
moving all of their services to the web, using mobile for every single touchpoint with
their customers, and reducing organizational synchronizations through automation
of most activities. They are an adaptation of what formulated the previous paradigm
shift in software: the microservices and APIs revolution, platform-based Team Top‐




                                                                                The Origin   |   15
ologies,4 computational governance models such as Zero Trust Architecture,5 and
operating distributed solutions securely and across multiple clouds and hosting envi‐
ronments. In the last several years, these principles have been refined and adapted to
the analytical data problem space.
Let’s look more closely at each of the data mesh principles.




4 Matthew Skelton and Manual Pais (2019). Team Topologies: Organizing Business and Technology Teams for Fast
     Flow. Portland, OR: IT Revolution.
5 Scott W. Rose, Oliver Borchert, Stuart Mitchell, and Sean Connelly (2020). “Zero Trust Architecture”, Special
     Publication (NIST SP), National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD.


16     |   Chapter 1: Data Mesh in a Nutshell
About the Author
Zhamak Dehghani is a director of technology at Thoughtworks, focusing on dis‐
tributed systems and data architecture in the enterprise. She’s a member of multiple
technology advisory boards including Thoughtworks. Zhamak is an advocate for the
decentralization of all things, including architecture, data, and ultimately power. She
is the founder of data mesh.

Colophon
The animal on the cover of Data Mesh is a great snipe (Gallinago media), the fastest
migratory bird known to humans. Great snipes breed in northeastern Europe and
migrate to sub-Saharan Africa. Researchers have recorded great snipes flying 4,200
miles at up to 60 mph without stopping.
A typical great snipe wingspan is 17–20 inches. They normally weigh under 7 ounces.
The great snipe’s plumage is mottled brown, an effective camouflage for the grass‐
lands, marshes, and meadows they inhabit, with a dark stripe across their eyes. The
beak is long for foraging in mud and wetlands for worms and insects.
The great snipe population is Near Threatened, according to the IUCN Red List.
Many of the animals on O’Reilly’s covers are endangered; all of them are important to
the world.
The cover illustration is by Karen Montgomery, based on a black-and-white engrav‐
ing from British Birds. The cover fonts are Gilroy Semibold and Guardian Sans. The
text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the
code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.
