Data Governance - 2nd Edition | Elsevier Shop
Skip to main content

Books
Journals
Browse by subject

Back

Discover Books & Journals by subject

Life Sciences
Agricultural & Biological Sciences
Drug Discovery
Immunology
Life Sciences
Microbiology & Virology
Neuroscience
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Pharmacology
Toxicology
All

Physical Sciences & Engineering
Astronomy, Astrophysics, Space Science
Built Environment
Chemical Engineering
Chemistry
Computer Science
Earth & Planetary Sciences
Energy & Power
Engineering & Technology
Environmental Sciences
Mathematics
Materials Science
Physics
All

Social Sciences & Humanities
Arts & Humanities
Business, Management & Accounting
Decision Sciences
Economics & Finance
Forensics
Psychology
Social Sciences
All

Health
Dentistry
Health Professions
Medicine
Nursing & Midwifery
Veterinary Science & Veterinary Medicine
All

Search

0 items in shopping cart.  View Cart
My account

Open main site navigation

Home

Books

Subjects

Engineering and technology

Data Governance

Data Governance
How to Design, Deploy, and Sustain an Effective Data Governance Program

2nd Edition - November 8, 2019

Latest edition

Author: John Ladley

Language: English

Managing data continues to grow as a necessity for modern organizations. There are seemingly infinite opportunities for organic growth, reduction of costs, and creation of new pr… Read more 

 End of Summer Sale
Save up to 30% off
Bright savings for research, study, and discovery

Shop the summer sale

Description

Managing data continues to grow as a necessity for modern organizations. There are seemingly infinite opportunities for organic growth, reduction of costs, and creation of new products and services. It has become apparent that none of these opportunities can happen smoothly without data governance. The cost of exponential data growth and privacy / security concerns are becoming burdensome. Organizations will encounter unexpected consequences in new sources of risk. The solution to these challenges is also data governance; ensuring balance between risk and opportunity.  
Data Governance, Second Edition, is for any executive, manager or data professional who needs to understand or implement a data governance program. It is required to ensure consistent, accurate and reliable data across their organization. This book offers an overview of why data governance is needed, how to design, initiate, and execute a program and how to keep the program sustainable. This valuable resource provides comprehensive guidance to beginning professionals, managers or analysts looking to improve their processes, and advanced students in Data Management and related courses. With the provided framework and case studies all professionals in the data governance field will gain key insights into launching successful and money-saving data governance program.

Key features

Incorporates industry changes, lessons learned and new approaches 
Explores various ways in which data analysts and managers can ensure consistent, accurate and reliable data across their organizations 
Includes new case studies which detail real-world situations 
Explores all of the capabilities an organization must adopt to become data driven 
Provides guidance on various approaches to data governance, to determine whether an organization should be low profile, central controlled, agile, or traditional 
Provides guidance on using technology and separating vendor hype from sincere delivery of necessary capabilities 
Offers readers insights into how their organizations can improve the value of their data, through data quality, data strategy and data literacy 
Provides up to 75% brand-new content compared to the first edition

Readership
Data analysts, data managers, researchers, and engineers who need to ensure consistent, accurate and reliable data across their company, lab, hospital, etc

Table of contents

1. Prologue – An Executive Overview

2. Introduction

3. Data Literacy and Concepts

4 Overview – A Day in the Life of a data governance program and its capabilities

5. The data governance business case

6. Process overview for deploying data governance

7. Scope and initiation

8. Assess

9. Vision

10. Align and business value

11. Functional design

12. Governing framework design

13. Road map

14. Rollout and sustain

15. Data governance artifacts and tools

16. Final remarks 
Appendix
Data Governance Charters Template
Data Governance Orientation and ongoing knowledge transfer template
Stakeholder Analysis
Leadership Alignment Assessment
Communications Plan
Training Plan Example
Post-rollout Checklist

Review quotes

"John Ladley’s latest book is the second edition of his Data Governance book, first published in 2012. If you know the first edition of this book, you’ll certainly appreciate this updated second edition. Reading this book will provide you with a comprehensive overview of why data governance is needed, how to design, initiate, and execute a data governance program, and how to keep the program sustainable. 
There is a ton of new content in this second edition, including new case studies, updated industry details, and updated coverage of the available data governance tools that can help.The book will be useful to you whether you are a novice or a seasoned professional. At the heart of this book is the framework that Ladley communicates that you can follow to build and maintain successful data governance at your organization. In combination with the use cases that he walks through in the book, you have a powerful guide for launching your data governance program. Useful for both small and large organizations, be sure to pick up a copy of this book if you are charged with any aspect of data management and data governance within your shop."—Data and Technology Today

Product details

Edition: 2

Latest edition

Published: November 8, 2019

Language: English

About the author

JL

John Ladley

John Ladley is one of the leading pioneers in the field of Data Governance and Enterprise Information Management. As a consultant, trainer, and author he has over 30 years of coal-face experience dealing with the people and challenges of putting data to work. John has worked with clients across a range of sectors, bringing pragmatic insights to the management and governance of data as an asset and the leadership of data-related organisation transformation.
 John is also a founder of the Data Leaders’ Organisation, a collaborative think-tank of industry experts working to promote good practices in data management.
 John’s books include two editions of Data Governance: How to Design, Deploy, and Sustain an Effective Data Governance Program and Making Enterprise Information Management (EIM) Work for Business: A Guide to Understanding Information as an Asset. John is a regular keynote speaker at data industry conferences worldwide.

Affiliations and expertisePrincipal of IMCue Solutions, Editor of the Data Strategy Journal, USA

View book on ScienceDirect

Read Data Governance on ScienceDirect

product

Useful links
Book awards
Book bestsellers
Book imprints
Book pre-order
Book series(opens in new tab/window)
Flexible eBook solutions
Journal bestsellers
New book releases
Student corner(opens in new tab/window)

Quick help
eBook formats(opens in new tab/window)
My account(opens in new tab/window)
Returns & refunds(opens in new tab/window)
Shipping & delivery(opens in new tab/window)
Subscriptions & renewals(opens in new tab/window)
Support & contact(opens in new tab/window)
Tax exempt orders(opens in new tab/window)
Withdrawal order

Solutions
ClinicalKey(opens in new tab/window)
ClinicalKey AI(opens in new tab/window)
Embase(opens in new tab/window)
Evolve(opens in new tab/window)
Mendeley(opens in new tab/window)
Knovel(opens in new tab/window)
Reaxys(opens in new tab/window)
ScienceDirect(opens in new tab/window)

About
About Elsevier(opens in new tab/window)
Careers(opens in new tab/window)
Newsroom(opens in new tab/window)

(opens in new tab/window)(opens in new tab/window)(opens in new tab/window)(opens in new tab/window)

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier, its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Terms & conditions(opens in new tab/window)
Privacy policy(opens in new tab/window)
Accessibility statement(opens in new tab/window)
Cookie Settings
Support & contact(opens in new tab/window)
