

	

	

	Data governance: A conceptual framework, structured review, and research agenda | Department of Information Systems

	

	

    

    

        

To the content

To the main navigation

To the target group navigation

To the sub-navigation

    

                

        

        

                                                                        

                                                

                                                

    

                    

                

                            

                

            

    

                            

Search

                    

Student Affairs

Prospective Students

Research

The Department

Campus

Career

    

        

School of Business and Economics

ISSC - Student Council

Women+ in IS

ERCIS

        

en

de

    

            

            

Home 
Research 
Publications 
Data governance: A conceptual framework, structured review, and research agenda            

                    

                        

        
     

        
Data governance: A conceptual framework, structured review, and research agenda

Abraham R; Schneider J; vom Brocke J

Abstract

Data governance refers to the exercise of authority and control over the management of data. The purpose of data governance is to increase the value of data and minimize data-related cost and risk. Despite data governance gaining in importance in recent years, a holistic view on data governance, which could guide both practitioners and researchers, is missing. In this review paper, we aim to close this gap and develop a conceptual framework for data governance, synthesize the literature, and provide a research agenda. We base our work on a structured literature review including 145 research papers and practitioner publications published during 2001-2019. We identify the major building blocks of data governance and decompose them along six dimensions. The paper supports future research on data governance by identifying five research areas and displaying a total of 15 research questions. Furthermore, the conceptual framework provides an overview of antecedents, scoping parameters, and governance mechanisms to assist practitioners in approaching data governance in a structured manner.

Keywords

Data governance; information governance; conceptual framework; literature review; research agenda

Cite as
        Abraham, R., Schneider, J., & vom Brocke, J. (2019). Data governance: A conceptual framework, structured review, and research agenda. International Journal of Information Management, 49, 424–438.        

Details

            
Publication type

Research article (journal)

            

Peer reviewed

Yes

                        

Publication status

Published

                        

Year

2019

            

                        

Journal

International Journal of Information Management

                        

Volume

49

                        

                        

                        

Start page

424

                        

End page

438

                        

                        

                        

                        

                        

                        

                        
ISSN

0268-4012

                        

                        
DOI

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.07.008

                        

Full text

https://www.sciencedirect.com/

                        

    

    

        

	

        
        User login    

                

  Username *

Please provide your WWU account

  Password *

Please provide your WWU password

    

                    

            

            

Contact

                        Department of Information Systems

                                                Leonardo-Campus 3                                                

                        48149                         Münster
                         Germany                                                                                                                                            

                        
Youtube                        
Facebook                                                
Instagram                        
LinkedIn                    

            

            

                                    

                                                    living.knowledge

                            

        

        

                
Index

Sitemap

Contact

Login

Legal Notice

Privacy Statement

        

            
© 2026                                    Department of Information Systems                                

    

  

