

    

    
    Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks

    

    

    

    

    

    

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

    

    

        

    

    

    

    

    

        

        
        NeurIPS Proceedings

            

        

            

                

            

                

            

                
                Search

        

    

    

            
Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks

Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, Douwe Kiela

                Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33  (NeurIPS 2020)

            

        
AuthorFeedback Bibtex MetaReview Paper Review Supplemental

        

        

            
Abstract

Large pre-trained language models have been shown to store factual knowledge in their parameters, and achieve state-of-the-art results when fine-tuned on downstream NLP tasks. However, their ability to access and precisely manipulate knowledge is still limited, and hence on knowledge-intensive tasks, their performance lags behind task-specific architectures. Additionally, providing provenance for their decisions and updating their world knowledge remain open research problems. Pre-trained models with a differentiable access mechanism to explicit non-parametric memory can overcome this issue, but have so far been only investigated for extractive downstream tasks. We explore a general-purpose fine-tuning recipe for retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) -- models which combine pre-trained parametric and non-parametric memory for language generation. We introduce RAG models where the parametric memory is a pre-trained seq2seq model and the non-parametric memory is a dense vector index of Wikipedia, accessed with a pre-trained neural retriever. We compare two RAG formulations, one which conditions on the same retrieved passages across the whole generated sequence, the other can use different passages per token. We fine-tune and evaluate our models on a wide range of knowledge-intensive NLP tasks and set the state-of-the-art on three open domain QA tasks, outperforming parametric seq2seq models and task-specific retrieve-and-extract architectures. For language generation tasks, we find that RAG models generate more specific, diverse and factual language than a state-of-the-art parametric-only seq2seq baseline.

        

        

    

    

 

          

            

              

                Name Change Policy
                ×

              

                
Requests for name changes in the electronic proceedings will be accepted with no questions asked.  However name changes may cause bibliographic tracking issues.  Authors are asked to consider this carefully and discuss it with their co-authors prior to requesting a name change in the electronic proceedings.

Use the "Report an Issue" link to request a name change.

               

              

          

    

        Report an Issue    |           Name Change Policy

Do not remove: This comment is monitored to verify that the site is working properly

