

    

    

    

        Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation
      -  University of Southern Denmark

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

    

        

        

        

    

    

    

Skip to main navigation

    Skip to search

Skip to main content

    

            

                

                    
                        University of Southern Denmark Home

                    

                

                        

                                

                                    Help & FAQ
                                      Link opens in a new tab

                            

                        

                                

                                

                                    
Dansk
English

                            

                    

                

            

        

                

    

        

            

                

                    Search content at University of Southern Denmark

                

                

                    

                    

            

    

            

        

            

                

                    

                        

                                

                                    Home

                                

                                        Researchers

                                

                                        Research units

                                

                                        Research output

                                

                                        Activities

                                

                                        Projects

                                

                                        Datasets

                                

                                        Impacts

                                

                                        Press/Media

                                

                                        Prizes

                                

                                        Teaching

                                

                        

                    

            

    

    

    

        

        

        

            

        

    

        

            

Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation

Anders Haug
, Jan Stentoft Arlbjørn
, Frederik Zachariassen
, Jakob Schlichter

Department of Business and Sustainability

            

Research output: Contribution to journal › Journal article › Research › peer-review

        

    

        

                

                    

                        

                                

                        

                        

                                

                                

                        

                

        

    

    

    

        

                

                    

                        Overview

                

                    

                        

                            Fingerprint

                    

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

            

    

    

        

            

            

                

                    

                        

                            
Abstract

Purpose - The development of IT has enabled organizations to collect and store many times more data than they were able to just decades ago. This means that companies are now faced with managing huge amounts of data, which represents new challenges in ensuring high data quality. The purpose of this paper is to identify barriers to obtaining high master data quality. Design/methodology/approach - This paper defines relevant master data quality barriers and investigates their mutual importance through organizing data quality barriers identified in literature into a framework for analysis of data quality. The importance of the different classes of data quality barriers is investigated by a large questionnaire study, including answers from 787 Danish manufacturing companies. Findings - Based on a literature review, the paper identifies 12 master data quality barriers. The relevance and completeness of this classification is investigated by a large questionnaire study, which also clarifies the mutual importance of the defined barriers and the differences in importance in small, medium, and large companies. Research limitations/ implications - The defined classification of data quality barriers provides a point of departure for future research by pointing to relevant areas for investigation of data quality problems. The limitations of the study are that it focuses only on manufacturing companies and master data (i.e. not transaction data). Practical implications - The classification of data quality barriers can give companies increased awareness of why they experience data quality problems. In addition, the paper suggests giving primary focus to organizational issues rather than perceiving poor data quality as an IT problem. Originality/value - Compared to extant classifications of data quality barriers, the contribution of this paper represents a more detailed and complete picture of what the barriers are in relation to data quality. Furthermore, the presented classification has been investigated by a large questionnaire study, for which reason it is founded on a more solid empirical basis than existing classifications.

Original languageEnglish
JournalIndustrial Management & Data Systems
Volume113
Issue number2
Pages (from-to)234-249
Number of pages16
ISSN0263-5577
DOIs
https://doi.org/10.1108/02635571311303550 
Publication statusPublished - 2013

                        

                        

                        

Keywords
Classification
Data management
Data quality
Data quality barriers
Denmark
Enterprise data
Information quality
Manufacturing industries
Master data

                    

                    

                        

Documents & Links

10.1108/02635571311303550

                        

SDU LinkCheck access to the material in SDU Library's search engine

                        

                        

                        

                        

                    

            

        

                

                    

                        

                            
                            Fingerprint

                        
                            Dive into the research topics of 'Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation'. Together they form a unique fingerprint.

                    

                    

                            

    

            
            Questionnaire Study
            Computer Science
            100%

    

    

                        

    

            
            Data Quality
            Social Sciences
            100%

    

    

                        

    

            
            Data Analysis
            Computer Science
            33%

    

    

                        

    

            
            Transaction Data
            Computer Science
            33%

    

    

                        

    

            
            Literature Review
            Computer Science
            33%

    

    

                        

    

            
            Danish
            Social Sciences
            6%

    

    

                        

    

            
            Literature Reviews
            Social Sciences
            6%

    

    

                        

    

            
            Data Processing
            Social Sciences
            6%

    

    

                        

                    

                        

                            
                                View full fingerprint

                            

                    

            

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

        

            

                

    
Cite this

        

                APA

        

                Author

        

                BIBTEX

        

                Harvard

        

                Standard

        

                RIS

        

                Vancouver

        

    

        

                
Haug, A., Arlbjørn, J. S., Zachariassen, F., & Schlichter, J. (2013). Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation. Industrial Management & Data Systems, 113(2), 234-249. https://doi.org/10.1108/02635571311303550

        

                
Haug, Anders  ; Arlbjørn, Jan Stentoft ; Zachariassen, Frederik et al. / Master data quality barriers : An empirical investigation. In: Industrial Management & Data Systems. 2013 ; Vol. 113, No. 2. pp. 234-249.

        

                

@article{0aa7f45d0cb64ab7bb7d1657823338c7,
  title     = "Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation",
  abstract  = "Purpose - The development of IT has enabled organizations to collect and store many times more data than they were able to just decades ago. This means that companies are now faced with managing huge amounts of data, which represents new challenges in ensuring high data quality. The purpose of this paper is to identify barriers to obtaining high master data quality. Design/methodology/approach - This paper defines relevant master data quality barriers and investigates their mutual importance through organizing data quality barriers identified in literature into a framework for analysis of data quality. The importance of the different classes of data quality barriers is investigated by a large questionnaire study, including answers from 787 Danish manufacturing companies. Findings - Based on a literature review, the paper identifies 12 master data quality barriers. The relevance and completeness of this classification is investigated by a large questionnaire study, which also clarifies the mutual importance of the defined barriers and the differences in importance in small, medium, and large companies. Research limitations/ implications - The defined classification of data quality barriers provides a point of departure for future research by pointing to relevant areas for investigation of data quality problems. The limitations of the study are that it focuses only on manufacturing companies and master data (i.e. not transaction data). Practical implications - The classification of data quality barriers can give companies increased awareness of why they experience data quality problems. In addition, the paper suggests giving primary focus to organizational issues rather than perceiving poor data quality as an IT problem. Originality/value - Compared to extant classifications of data quality barriers, the contribution of this paper represents a more detailed and complete picture of what the barriers are in relation to data quality. Furthermore, the presented classification has been investigated by a large questionnaire study, for which reason it is founded on a more solid empirical basis than existing classifications.",
  keywords  = "Classification, Data management, Data quality, Data quality barriers, Denmark, Enterprise data, Information quality, Manufacturing industries, Master data",
  author    = "Anders Haug and Arlbj{\o}rn, \{Jan Stentoft\} and Frederik Zachariassen and Jakob Schlichter",
  year      = "2013",
  doi       = "10.1108/02635571311303550",
  language  = "English",
  volume    = "113",
  pages     = "234--249",
  journal   = "Industrial Management \& Data Systems",
  issn      = "0263-5577",
  publisher = "Emerald Group Publishing",
  number    = "2",
}

        

                
Haug, A, Arlbjørn, JS, Zachariassen, F & Schlichter, J 2013, 'Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation', Industrial Management & Data Systems, vol. 113, no. 2, pp. 234-249. https://doi.org/10.1108/02635571311303550

        

                
Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation. / Haug, Anders; Arlbjørn, Jan Stentoft; Zachariassen, Frederik et al. 
In: Industrial Management & Data Systems, Vol. 113, No. 2, 2013, p. 234-249.
Research output: Contribution to journal › Journal article › Research › peer-review

        

                

TY  - JOUR
T1  - Master data quality barriers
T2  - An empirical investigation
AU  - Haug, Anders
AU  - Arlbjørn, Jan Stentoft
AU  - Zachariassen, Frederik
AU  - Schlichter, Jakob
PY  - 2013
Y1  - 2013
N2  - Purpose - The development of IT has enabled organizations to collect and store many times more data than they were able to just decades ago. This means that companies are now faced with managing huge amounts of data, which represents new challenges in ensuring high data quality. The purpose of this paper is to identify barriers to obtaining high master data quality. Design/methodology/approach - This paper defines relevant master data quality barriers and investigates their mutual importance through organizing data quality barriers identified in literature into a framework for analysis of data quality. The importance of the different classes of data quality barriers is investigated by a large questionnaire study, including answers from 787 Danish manufacturing companies. Findings - Based on a literature review, the paper identifies 12 master data quality barriers. The relevance and completeness of this classification is investigated by a large questionnaire study, which also clarifies the mutual importance of the defined barriers and the differences in importance in small, medium, and large companies. Research limitations/ implications - The defined classification of data quality barriers provides a point of departure for future research by pointing to relevant areas for investigation of data quality problems. The limitations of the study are that it focuses only on manufacturing companies and master data (i.e. not transaction data). Practical implications - The classification of data quality barriers can give companies increased awareness of why they experience data quality problems. In addition, the paper suggests giving primary focus to organizational issues rather than perceiving poor data quality as an IT problem. Originality/value - Compared to extant classifications of data quality barriers, the contribution of this paper represents a more detailed and complete picture of what the barriers are in relation to data quality. Furthermore, the presented classification has been investigated by a large questionnaire study, for which reason it is founded on a more solid empirical basis than existing classifications.
AB  - Purpose - The development of IT has enabled organizations to collect and store many times more data than they were able to just decades ago. This means that companies are now faced with managing huge amounts of data, which represents new challenges in ensuring high data quality. The purpose of this paper is to identify barriers to obtaining high master data quality. Design/methodology/approach - This paper defines relevant master data quality barriers and investigates their mutual importance through organizing data quality barriers identified in literature into a framework for analysis of data quality. The importance of the different classes of data quality barriers is investigated by a large questionnaire study, including answers from 787 Danish manufacturing companies. Findings - Based on a literature review, the paper identifies 12 master data quality barriers. The relevance and completeness of this classification is investigated by a large questionnaire study, which also clarifies the mutual importance of the defined barriers and the differences in importance in small, medium, and large companies. Research limitations/ implications - The defined classification of data quality barriers provides a point of departure for future research by pointing to relevant areas for investigation of data quality problems. The limitations of the study are that it focuses only on manufacturing companies and master data (i.e. not transaction data). Practical implications - The classification of data quality barriers can give companies increased awareness of why they experience data quality problems. In addition, the paper suggests giving primary focus to organizational issues rather than perceiving poor data quality as an IT problem. Originality/value - Compared to extant classifications of data quality barriers, the contribution of this paper represents a more detailed and complete picture of what the barriers are in relation to data quality. Furthermore, the presented classification has been investigated by a large questionnaire study, for which reason it is founded on a more solid empirical basis than existing classifications.
KW  - Classification
KW  - Data management
KW  - Data quality
KW  - Data quality barriers
KW  - Denmark
KW  - Enterprise data
KW  - Information quality
KW  - Manufacturing industries
KW  - Master data
U2  - 10.1108/02635571311303550
DO  - 10.1108/02635571311303550
M3  - Journal article
SN  - 0263-5577
VL  - 113
SP  - 234
EP  - 249
JO  - Industrial Management & Data Systems
JF  - Industrial Management & Data Systems
IS  - 2
ER  - 

        

                
Haug A, Arlbjørn JS, Zachariassen F, Schlichter J. Master data quality barriers: An empirical investigation. Industrial Management & Data Systems. 2013;113(2):234-249. doi: 10.1108/02635571311303550

        

        

            

        

    

    

    

    

        

    

    

        

            

            

                    

                

            

        

    

    

    

    

    

            

                

                    

                        

                                

                                    

                            

                        

                            

                                Powered by Pure Link opens in a new tab, Scopus Link opens in a new tab & Elsevier Fingerprint Engine™ Link opens in a new tab

                            

                                All content on this site: Copyright © 2026 University of Southern Denmark, its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the relevant licensing terms apply

                            
We use cookies to help provide and enhance our service and tailor content. By continuing you agree to the use of cookies

                            

Log in to Pure   Link opens in a new tab

                            

                        

                        

                            

University of Southern Denmark data protection policy   Link opens in a new tab

                            

                                
About web accessibility   Link opens in a new tab

                            

                                

                            

                                

                            

                                Report vulnerability   Link opens in a new tab

                        

                        

                

        

            

    

    

    

    

