INFORMATICA, 2023, Vol. 34, No. 4, 795–824                                                           795
© 2023 Vilnius University
DOI: https://doi.org/10.15388/23-INFOR534



A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories

Fernando GUALO1,2 , Ismael CABALLERO2,∗ , Moisés RODRÍGUEZ3 ,
Mario PIATTINI2
1 DQTeam, Camino de Moledores s/n, 13071, Ciudad Real Spain
2 University of Castilla-La Mancha, Paseo de la Univerisdad 4, 13071, Ciudad Real Spain
3 AQCLab, Camino de Moledores s/n, 13071, Ciudad Real Spain
e-mail: fgualo@dqteam.es, Ismael.Caballero@uclm.es, mrodriguez@aqclab.es,
Mario.Piattini@uclm.es

Received: May 2023; accepted: October 2023

Abstract. Master data has been revealed as one of the most potent instruments to guarantee adequate
levels of data quality. The main contribution of this paper is a data quality model to guide repeatable
and homogeneous evaluations of the level of data quality of master data repositories. This data
quality model follows several international open standards: ISO/IEC 25012, ISO/IEC 25024, and
ISO 8000-1000, enabling compliance certiﬁcation. A case study of applying the data quality model
to an organizational master data repository has been carried out to demonstrate the applicability of
the data quality model.
Key words: master data management, data quality certiﬁcation, master data quality, ISO 8000-100
series, ISO/IEC 25012, ISO/IEC 25024.



1. Introduction

With the growing need to share data to empower companies, organizations, and societies
to be more competitive and sustainable (i.e. European Data Strategy1 ), data must be prop-
agated within and outside the organizations. To avoid the possible propagation of errors
and to assure the achievement of the expected beneﬁts, it is more necessary than ever to
monitor the levels of quality of the data repositories by strategically enabling data quality
evaluation cycles regularly; and, if feasible, granting data quality certiﬁcations to maxi-
mize the trustability and usability of organizational data (Gualo et al., 2021).
    Implementation of master data initiatives creates a uniﬁed and internally and externally
shareable vision of the critical business data elements and associated standard business
rules (Fan et al., 2013; Silvola et al., 2011). The resulting master data repository is an
integrated, consistent, trusted, and commonly shared representation of the “single version
of the truth” populated with the golden records. One advantage is that this repository
can be used as an authoritative source of data to reliably and consistently feed business

    ∗ Corresponding author.
    1 European data strategy: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/european-strategy-data
796                                     F. Gualo et al.

processes in diﬀerent scenarios by diﬀerent actors in other contexts (Allen and Cervo,
2015; Haneem et al., 2017, 2019). Investments in Master Data Management (MDM) allow
the minimization of redundant eﬀorts in repeatedly ﬁxing the same data quality concerns
through diﬀerent departments (Allen and Cervo, 2015; Gualo et al., 2020). Consequently,
the better the levels of data quality of the master data repositories, the better the intra- and
inter-organizational performance.
    However, dealing with poor data quality in the master data repositories is still one of
the biggest challenges in master data management (Benkherourou and Bourouis, 2022;
Ibrahim et al., 2021; Silvola et al., 2011). Several works stated that master data quality
issues go beyond consistency and deduplication (Cleven and Wortmann, 2010; Fan et al.,
2013). Furthermore, it is interesting to deﬁne master data quality measurements to explore
and monitor the execution of speciﬁc managerial concerns (i.e. redeﬁnition of master data
models, Gartner, 2021) or technological projects (i.e. entity resolution processes, Talburt,
2011).
    To systematically and rigorously conduct the corresponding data quality evaluation
and certiﬁcation projects, it is possible to use the international standards ISO/IEC 25012
(ISO/IEC, 2008), ISO/IEC 25024 (ISO/IEC, 2015), and ISO/IEC 25040 (ISO/IEC, 2011).
In this sense, we pose that organizations can be beneﬁted from using the framework we
developed based on these international standards tailoring a data quality model for the
master data repositories conveniently. This repository type has speciﬁc features that dif-
ferentiate them from transactional data repositories making it unique and justifying a par-
ticular investigation on master data quality (see Section 2.1). In this paper, considering
these diﬀerences and based on learned lessons in our previous experience, we propose a
quality model tailored for master data repositories based on international standards.
ISO/IEC 25012’s data quality characteristics are revisited for this aim. The related prop-
erties and measurement methods deﬁned in ISO/IEC 25024 are also reviewed, consider-
ing the unique features that make master data quality diﬀerent from regular data quality.
To this latter aim, speciﬁc business rules for master data quality are required (Fan et al.,
2013; Valencia-Parra et al., 2021). To our knowledge, only the ISO 8000-100 series (more
speciﬁcally, ISO 8000-110, ISO, 2009) could be a source of potential business rules for
evaluation and certiﬁcation. As the business rules are not explicitly stated in these stan-
dards, we inferred them from various parts of the ISO 8000-100 series. Finally, to grant
a certiﬁcate, some characteristics of master data quality susceptible to being certiﬁable
were identiﬁed and selected by stating and applying some criteria.
    The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 brieﬂy reviews con-
cepts about master data management, data quality evaluation, and ISO 8000-100 series.
Section 3 describes the data quality model for master data quality evaluation and certiﬁ-
cation. Section 4 introduces a case study, also showing some learned lessons. Section 5
identiﬁes some threats to the validity of our proposal, and ﬁnally, Section 6 presents some
conclusions.
                      A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                     797

2. Literature Review

2.1. Master Data and Master Data Management Foundations

According to ISO/IEC 25024 (ISO/IEC, 2015), master data is “the data held by an or-
ganization that describes the key entities that are independent and fundamental for an
enterprise that needs to reference to perform its transactions and that are essential for
the core business of an enterprise”. Data and metadata should be shared either internally
within the organization (i.e. diﬀerent applications supporting various business processes)
and externally with some other third partners (Allen and Cervo, 2015; Dreibelbis et al.,
2008; Otto, 2015; Rivas et al., 2017; Silvola et al., 2011). The sharing typically includes
the critical entities with the essential properties or attributes and associated metadata, at-
tributes, deﬁnitions, roles, connections, and taxonomies (Silvola et al., 2011). Key entities
can be partners (e.g. organizations, customers), places (e.g. locations, oﬃces), or things
(e.g. products, services) (Silvola et al., 2011). Master data have the following features:
independent existence, in contrast to other types of data (i.e. transactional), low change
frequency (due to its stability across time), and constant data volume (the domain of the
organization limits the amount and type of knowledge on the business) (Cleven and Wort-
mann, 2010).
     Master data diﬀers from any other types of data in these four aspects (Hüner et al.,
2011): (1) Master data refers to key business entities, data references have a lower granu-
larity level for master data attributes, and it is not limited to a given domain (Cleven and
Wortmann, 2010); (2) Master data always describes essential characteristics (i.e. product
name) that can be part of the transactional data (i.e. orders) or the inventory data (i.e. prod-
uct data); (3) Master data is kept unaltered longer than other types of data, and, typically,
for some business, the provided initial description is the basis for the progressive evolu-
tion of the essential characteristics observed by the organization over time; and (4) Master
data records (systems of records) are usually more constant in volume than transactional
data.
     Transactional data typically use master data as a reference. The implementation of
master data management systems typically includes four main components (Haneem et
al., 2019): data integration module, master data repository – whose quality is the focus of
this paper-metadata repository (i.e. data dictionary), and data quality module. These com-
ponents use a wide range of the following artifacts (Allen and Cervo, 2015): data models,
data dictionaries with reference data (the commonest metadata repository), functional ar-
chitecture, source to target mapping, data life cycle, and CRUD analysis indicating the
assignation of permissions to user groups to operate with master data.
     Data dictionaries contain the semantic deﬁnition of terms for master data that would
provide the business and technical description of the master data through metadata and
valid values (reference data) for master data attributes. Reference data can be deﬁned as
a list of acceptable values (i.e. a list of currency or nation codes as those gathered in ISO
4217 or ISO 3166) or using procedures to build these good values (i.e. regular expressions
to validate an email address). To ensure that master data attributes (especially identiﬁers)
798                                    F. Gualo et al.

take the correct values from the set of valid values, syntactic and semantic codiﬁcation
should be enabled, as explained in ISO 800-110 (ISO, 2009). This codiﬁcation is required
to identify a speciﬁc master entity within a dataset unambiguously (Berson and Dubov,
2011), when it is necessary to anonymize the information for personal protection purposes,
or even when it is required to cipher information for security purposes (Piedrabuena et al.,
2015). To better support codiﬁcation, the creation of a data dictionary is convenient. These
semantic deﬁnitions are later used to build master data repositories that contain what has
also been called the golden record. A “golden record” is a superset of all master data
attributes whose values have been integrated from all available data sources for the same
real-world entity (Loshin, 2010). These aspects become essential for the quality of the
proper master data repository and make the management of master data quality diﬀerent
than other types of data (e.g. transactional data).
    However, master data is much more than technology (Haneem et al., 2017). Dahlberg
et al. (2011) pointed out that poor master data management is the cause for which busi-
ness initiatives can suﬀer from loss of performance or even lack of data quality. Master
data management requires a combination of processes, data governance, and technology
implementation to enable organizations to achieve the maximum beneﬁts from the data
(Allen and Cervo, 2015; Berson and Dubov, 2011; Haneem et al., 2017).

2.2. Management of Quality of Master Data Repositories

Organizations must face many data quality concerns, like inconsistencies in data deﬁ-
nitions, data formats, and values or lack of understanding of the semantics of the data
deﬁnitions (Cleven and Wortmann, 2010). Master data management is instrumental in ad-
dressing these data quality problems and concerns (Dahlberg et al., 2011; Haneem et al.,
2017; Silvola et al., 2011; Vilminko-Heikkinen and Pekkola, 2017).
    As master data are still data (Allen and Cervo, 2015), it could be said that the body
of knowledge on data quality management for regular (i.e. transactional) data is a good
starting point for studying the quality of master data, but taking into consideration the
unique features of master data shown in Section 2.1. However, even when several works
have dealt explicitly with how master data management has helped organizations to solve
data quality issues (Silvola et al., 2011), only a few works address the evaluation of the
quality of the master data repositories (Ibrahim et al., 2021; Vilminko-Heikkinen and
Pekkola, 2017).
    Master Data quality evaluation is also closely associated with data quality dimension
or characteristics (Gualo et al., 2021; Wand and Wang, 1996). These data quality char-
acteristics can be understood as criteria used to evaluate the quality and can be used as a
basis for improving quality (Valencia-Parra et al., 2021). A data quality model is the set
of data quality characteristics that best represent user requirements in a speciﬁc context.
Consequently, diﬀerent data quality evaluations require particular data quality models.
This fact is also true for the quality management of master data. More speciﬁcally, several
authors have proposed other data quality models for diﬀerent contexts of using master
data. Table 1 gathers and compares the various data quality characteristics that the most
                      A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                          799

                                               Table 1
                Data quality dimensions/characteristics for master data in the literature.

                  (Allen and (Dahlberg (Haneem (Hüner (Loshin, (Fan et al., (Otto et al.,
                  Cervo,     et al.,   et al., et al., 2010)   2013)        2010)
                  2015)      2011)     2017)   2011)
Accuracy                                                           
Availability                    
Change frequency                                           
Completeness                                                                   
Conformity       
Consistency                                                                    
Correctness                                                                                  
Currency                                                                         
Deduplication                                                                    
Integrity                      
Plausibility                                                                                 
Timeliness                                                         
Uniqueness                                                           
Validity         



relevant master data quality works have included. These data quality characteristics enable
the measurement of speciﬁc aspects.
    In addition to these works, given its beneﬁts, we pose that the most convenient way
to deal with the selection of the data quality characteristics is using ISO/IEC 25012
(ISO/IEC, 2008) (see Table 2 – Type “I” stands for “Inherent”, and “SD” stands for “Sys-
tem Dependent”). For evaluating data quality characteristics, the underlying data quality
properties and corresponding measurements must be deﬁned to measure the quality of
the master data records. For a generic description of data quality properties and mea-
surements, a view on ISO/IEC 25024 (ISO/IEC, 2015) is encouraged in complementing
ISO/IEC 25012. Additionally, ISO/IEC 25040 (ISO/IEC, 2011) provides a generic soft-
ware quality evaluation framework that can be also used for evaluating data quality.
    Based on these standards, we developed a complete framework – initially proposed
by Merino (2017) and later revised and improved by Gualo et al. (2021) – that can be
used to evaluate and certify the quality of various data types. This framework can be
used with tailored data quality models for several data types and domains. The tailoring
of suitable data quality models can be deﬁned by conducting the appropriate research
like the present work for Master Data. The tailoring involves the interpretation of the
characteristics included in the data quality models and the consequent deﬁnition of the
data quality measurements.
    Part of the deﬁnition of data quality measurements involves the identiﬁcation of some
business rules describing the ﬁtness for using a data record (that is, deﬁning a list of
valid values for attributes). Previously in Section 2.1, the importance of data dictionar-
ies as typical containers of the set of valid values for the golden records in the master
data repository was raised. For instance, data dictionaries can help the organization in the
800                                              F. Gualo et al.

                                                    Table 2
                                 Data Quality characteristics in ISO/IEC 25012.

Characteristic         Type     Deﬁnition
Accessibility          I/SD     The degree to which data can be accessed in a speciﬁc context of use,
                                particularly by people who need supporting technology or special conﬁguration
                                because of some disability.
Accuracy               I        The degree to which the data has attributes that correctly represent the true
                                value of the intended attribute of a concept or event in a speciﬁc context of use.
Availability           SD       The degree to which data has attributes that enable it to be retrieved by
                                authorized users and/or applications in a speciﬁc context of use.
Completeness           I        The degree to which subject data associated with an entity has values for all
                                expected attributes and related entity instances in a speciﬁc context of use.
Compliance             I/SD     The degree to which data has attributes that adhere to standards, conventions, or
                                regulations in force and similar rules relating to data quality in a speciﬁc context
                                of use.
Conﬁdentiality         I/SD     The degree to which data has attributes that ensure that it is only accessible and
                                interpretable by authorized users in a speciﬁc context of use.
Consistency            I        The degree to which data has attributes free from contradiction and coherent
                                with other data in a speciﬁc context of use.
Credibility            I        The degree to which data has attributes regarded as true and believable by users
                                in a speciﬁc context of use.
Currentness            I        The degree to which data has attributes of the right age in a speciﬁc context of
                                use.
Eﬃciency               I/SD     The degree to which data has attributes that can be processed and provide the
                                expected levels of performance by using the appropriate amounts and types of
                                resources in a speciﬁc context of use.
Portability            SD       The degree to which data has attributes that enable it to be installed, replaced, or
                                moved from one system to another, preserving the existing quality in a speciﬁc
                                context of use.
Precision              I/SD     The degree to which data has attributes that are exact or that provide
                                discrimination in a speciﬁc context of use.
Recoverability         SD       The degree to which data has attributes that enable it to maintain and preserve a
                                speciﬁed level of operations and quality, even in the event of failure, in a
                                speciﬁc context of use.
Traceability           I/SD     The degree to which data has attributes that provide an audit trail of access to
                                the data and any changes made to the data in a speciﬁc context of use.
Understandability      I/SD     The degree to which data has attributes that enable it to be read and interpreted
                                by users and are expressed in appropriate languages, symbols, and units in a
                                speciﬁc context of use.



banking or insurance domain to adopt the Global Legal Entity for Identiﬁers (GLEI2 ) to
build and use speciﬁc identiﬁers for their partners, or ISO 21586 for their related prod-
ucts, or when a manufacturing company has decided to adopt Global Trade Item Number
(GTIN) to codify the identiﬁers for its products (Hüner et al., 2011). Consequently, it can
be said that, if correctly implemented, data dictionaries are one of the most valuable re-
sources to guarantee adequate levels of quality for data. To some extent, it is possible to
state that the quality of the master data repositories largely depends on the quality of the
data dictionary. Open international standards like the ISO 22745 series can be consulted

      2 Global Legal Entity for Identiﬁers website: https://www.gleif.org/en
                           A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                                             801

                                                     Table 3
                                       Overview of the ISO 8000-100 series.
              ISO 8000-100 – Overview (ISO, 2016a)       ISO/TS 8000-150 – Quality management framework (ISO, 2011)
ISO Master    Exchange of      ISO 8000-110 – Syntax, semantic encoding, and conformance to data speciﬁcation
              characteristic   (ISO, 2009)
Data Standard data             ISO 8000-120 –          ISO 8000-130 –        ISO 8000-140 –
                               Provenance (ISO, 2016b) Accuracy (ISO, 2016c) Completeness (ISO, 2016d)
              ISO 8000-115 – Exchange of quality identiﬁers: Syntactic, semantic, and resolution requirements (ISO, 2018)
              ISO 8000-116 – Exchange of quality identiﬁers: Application of ISO 8000-115 to authoritative legal entity
              identiﬁers (ISO, 2019)




and followed to improve the deﬁnition of data dictionaries. However, studying the quality
of data dictionaries is outside the scope of this investigation.

2.3. General Overview of ISO 8000-100 Series

Evaluating data quality properties requires identifying, validating, and grouping the busi-
ness rules (Caballero et al., 2022). For the interest of this investigation, we considered
parts 100 to 150 of the ISO 8000-100 series as the primary source of business rules. These
standards describe some aspects of the exchange of master data between applications (or
organizations) using the exchange of master data messages. Each part of the family is
summarized in Table 3.


3. Tailoring a Quality Model for Master Data Quality Evaluation

This investigation is motivated by some organizations’ need to evaluate the quality of the
master data repositories. Based on our experience in previous data quality evaluations
and certiﬁcation projects (Gualo et al., 2020), and on the inspection of the scarce related
literature we found, in this section, we present the master data quality model we tailored
to be used with the framework introduced in Section 2.2. The adaptation involves revising
the ISO/IEC 25012 data quality model and related ISO/IEC 25024 data quality properties
from the point of view of master data and considering its unique features.
     This revision generates a master data quality model agnostic to (1) the domain of ap-
plication of the master data (i.e. Manufacturing, Healthcare) (Allen and Cervo, 2015);
(2) the technology used to implement the master data repository, although typically, rela-
tional technology is preferred (Berson and Dubov, 2011; Otto, 2015), and to the technol-
ogy used to build and deploy services to access to the master data repository (Dreibelbis et
al., 2008); (3) the number of data sources to feed the master data repository, as well as the
number of destinations that consume data from the master data repository (i.e. business
processes) (Gualo et al., 2020; Ofner et al., 2012); (4) the speciﬁc implementation of the
integration processes feeding the master data repository (Dreibelbis et al., 2008); and (5)
the existing data quality processes already implemented to control and monitor the level
of quality of master data repositories.
802                                     F. Gualo et al.

3.1. Revisiting Data Quality Characteristics for Master Data

Since master data repositories are a particular type of data repository with speciﬁc busi-
ness rules and a unique environment, we grounded our investigation on the works on the
quality of regular data based on ISO/IEC 25012 and ISO/IEC 25024. In our investigation,
we comprehensively analyse master data quality and consider their speciﬁc unique fea-
tures that diﬀerentiate master data from other types of data (see Section 2.2) to provide
interpretations of the eﬀect of master data quality for business and IT. In the following
paragraphs, we introduce some results of this analysis. The analysis is made by ﬁrst recall-
ing the deﬁnition of the data quality characteristics according to ISO/IEC 25012 presented
in Table 2.
    Accessibility. Typically, this concern of accessibility is mainly referred to the user
interfaces and users’ disabilities. Master data is generally accessed using web services.
Furthermore, this type of service would not essentially diﬀer from others for regular data.
So, this characteristic does not necessarily need to be tailored for master data.
    Accuracy. Master data records must contain valid values (i.e. semantically or syntac-
tically encoded reference data) that represent the entities in real life (Allen and Cervo,
2015). In Master Data Systems, as mentioned in Section 2.1, these reference values are
typically stored and accessible in data dictionaries (i.e. eOTD by ECCMA3 in the “prod-
uct data” domain or ICD9/ICD10 in the “healthcare” domain), some of which may be
publicly available or through a pre-set fee (ISO, 2009). Thus, inadequate levels of accu-
racy may be a symptom that the coding processes need to be ﬁxed, regardless of whether
the process is manual or has been automated to the maximum extent possible. The more
relevant concerns can be measured on the master data values (through “Semantic Accu-
racy” or “Syntactic Accuracy” properties) or the data model (using the “master data model
accuracy” property). Low levels of this data quality characteristic are symptomatic of an
ineﬃcient standardization process or preliminary design and implementation of the ETL
process. This characteristic is strongly related to others, such as Understandability and
Credibility; in fact, they maintain a direct relationship: the higher the Understandability,
the higher the Accuracy and the higher the Credibility.
    Availability refers to the fact that master data, as a reference for diﬀerent business
processes, should be available and accessible at all times for stakeholders to use whenever
they need it (Li et al., 2013). It should also be mentioned that this data quality charac-
teristic is related to the ability of systems to provide master data records in an acceptable
response time (Allen and Cervo, 2015; Loshin, 2010). This data quality characteristic can
be measured through properties like the “Data Availability Ratio” or “Architectural Data
Element Availability”, which can help to detect when the master data records or some
of the elements of the architecture are not available (i.e. discontinuities of the web ser-
vices providing master data). In the context of master data, low levels for measuring this
data quality characteristic can be symptomatic of inadequate implementation of the ETLS
process.

      3 eOTD | ECCMA OPEN TECHNICAL DICTIONARY website: https://www.eotd.org/
                      A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                   803

    Completeness. Completeness can be measured from both points of view of the master
data model and the master data values. To meet the requirement, it would be desirable that
the master data design performed on a conceptual master data model be able to solve all
the data demands of the organization. Therefore, this master data model should be agreed
upon and complete as possible, considering as many contexts of using master data within
the organization as possible (Allen and Cervo, 2015). As stated in Section 2.1, master data
records are built from the integration and consolidation of master data attributes from the
diﬀerent data sources integrated as part of the design and implementation of the master
data model (Allen and Cervo, 2015). During master data integration processes (performed
through ETL processes), it should be possible to generate values for all attributes deﬁned
for master data entities (i.e. entity resolution, Talburt, 2011). Completeness measurements
can be used to diagnose some relevant concerns, such as (1) missing values for an entire
attribute of a data item in the master data repository, (2) missing values for some values
of master data records, or (3) missing certain records in master data of the data ﬁle. Con-
sidering that the conceptual model is adequate, having null values in those data elements
may be a symptom of (1) the ETLs processes are not adequately extracting values from
all data sources for all master attributes speciﬁed in the conceptual model; and (2) that
the data sources are not suﬃciently complete. In the ﬁrst case, an exhaustive testing pro-
cess of the ETLs processes is to be used; additionally, it may happen that, in the process
for master data record consolidation, the entity resolution algorithms do not generate any
values for speciﬁc attributes. On the other hand, in the second case, the idea is to resort to
a complete analysis of the completeness of each source involved in generating the master
data values.
    Compliance. Compliance can be measured from an inherent and a system-dependent
point of view. For example, the master data values for the master data of the disease reg-
istry in the healthcare domain must comply with ICD10 codes (Alonso et al., 2020), or
in the case of product data management, the GTIN to describe how to construct such
codes. The level of compliance with a normative value or format can be measured by the
“Regulatory compliance of value and/or format” property. It is common to use speciﬁc
technologies (i.e. JSON, XML) to support master data exchange. “Regulatory compliance
due to technology” property can determine the level of compliance of a given technology.
Low levels of compliance can be symptomatic of an ineﬃcient observation of required
standards or even regulations.
    Conﬁdentiality. It is essential to distinguish between availability (being able to ac-
cess the master data record) and conﬁdentiality (being able to read, interpret and use the
master data record if the user permissions are adequate to the sensitiveness of the data).
This characteristic can be measured using “Encryption usage” and “non-vulnerability”
properties. The foundations of conﬁdentiality measurements for master data do not diﬀer
much from those established for regular data. It is a matter of the user access setup of the
master data repository.
    Consistency can be measured between attributes of the same target entity or compa-
rable target master data entities. Consistency can be measured for a single system or more
than one system in the same environment. Considering the master data repository as an
804                                    F. Gualo et al.

authoritative source containing a single source of truth, inconsistencies should be avoided
using reference data to prevent the master data repository from becoming cluttered with
inconsistent values. This characteristic’s quality level can be determined by using sev-
eral properties: “Master data format consistency”, “Master data semantic consistency”,
“Referential Integrity”, or “Risk of master data inconsistency”. Standardization and prop-
agation of data reference values across data sources are good practices. In this sense, the
apparition of values in the master data records for attributes that are not calculated and
do not exist in the source tables can be a symptom of two possible problems. These prob-
lems are (1) referential integrity mechanisms have not been conveniently enabled in the
design of the master tables, and (2) the ETLs processes are not well designed and do not
consider all sources that can minimally provide values to create a minimum master data
record. It is interesting to note that reference data can collaterally increase the accuracy
and consistency levels. On the other hand, it is possible to include additional data qual-
ity characteristics under the ISO 25012’s consistency umbrella, such as completeness,
uniqueness, conformity, and validity, as Allen and Cervo (2015) did.
    Credibility. Organizations that consider their master data repositories as the sole
source of truth establish internally that the master data must be inherently credible. This
statement can be made implicitly through agreements or by creating speciﬁc data poli-
cies that must be implemented and enforced. In this way, top management is responsible
for any shortcomings that any stakeholder may cause when using the data in its speciﬁc
context. To some extent, it could be said that the credibility of the master data repository,
if any policy is in place, is as high as possible. The “Master data repository credibility”
property can measure the level of credibility. On the other hand, most master data records
contain reference data. They are generated through the integration and entity resolution
of data values from various sources using speciﬁc algorithms (Talburt, 2011). These al-
gorithms are supposed to observe rules of thumb, as well as possible exceptions, to create
a master data record that is credible and believable by users in a speciﬁc context (Otto
et al., 2010). This characteristic can be measured by the “Credibility of the master data
value” property. Low levels of Credibility, combined with low levels of Consistency, are
typically symptomatic that the credibility of the data sources is inadequate, and some in-
spection works must be done to isolate and ﬁx the corresponding ones. The most crucial
challenge in measuring this characteristic of data quality in master data regarding regular
data is the need for solid integration and cohesion of the master data records.
    Currentness. By their nature, master data repositories, once master data records are
consolidated, tend to have a minimal rate of change, so they are typically expected to
change little over time (Dahlberg et al., 2011; Hüner et al., 2011). However, they are not
exempt from changes, being some of the reasons for such changes are some planned up-
date operations, the need to execute some standardization process of the master data, or
some update of the reference data (Loshin, 2010) as in the case of the updates from ICD9
to ICD10 in clinical data coding (Santos et al., 2021). That implies that to maintain ade-
quate levels of the Currentness of master data records, these changes to the values of the
attributes of master data records should be made and propagated as soon as possible (Fan
et al., 2013). Currentness can be measured using two properties: “Timeliness of update”
                      A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                   805

and “Update frequency”. Low levels of Currentness are symptomatic of ineﬃcient update
processes. For this reason, Currentness is typically included as a relevant characteristic in
master data quality management (Allen and Cervo, 2015).
     Eﬃciency. One of the most common concerns in the literature on master data quality is
the duplicity of master data records (Berson and Dubov, 2011; Fan et al., 2013; Haneem et
al., 2017; Loshin, 2010) due to the inability or ineﬃciencies in entity resolution (Talburt,
2011), or to the election of a format type for master attribute values that do not optimize
the space occupied or the performance of operations (Allen and Cervo, 2015). Optimiz-
ing Eﬃciency requires avoiding duplicate master data entries to solve redundancy issues,
avoiding wasted storage space, and ensuring each master attribute has a usable format. The
Eﬃciency can be measured through three properties: “Eﬃcient master data item format”
to ensure that the data format of master data records is correct, “Risk of wasted space” to
ensure that the size of master data records is correct, and no unnecessary memory space
is wasted, and ﬁnally, the “Space occupied by master data records duplication” is used
to ensure that there are no duplicate master data records that may aﬀect the eﬃciency of
the master data repository. It is important to note that one of the worst consequences of
low levels of Eﬃciency in the case of potentially duplicated records is the probability of
propagating inaccurate values to other transactional systems.
     Portability. Organizations need to exchange data with other partners during the execu-
tion of their business process (Hüner et al., 2011; ISO, 2009; Rivas et al., 2017). Diﬀerent
systems can have other implementations of the same master data, being less portable.
Therefore, the more portable the data, the lower the costs of exchange and integration
(Silvola et al., 2011). For example, when backing up data for recovery purposes, it would
be necessary to allow maximum portability of the master data to lose information. Porta-
bility can be measured with the properties “Master Data Portability ratio”, “Prospective
data portability”, or “Architecture element portability”. Low levels of portability will thus
anticipate low chances of success when installing or moving master data from one system
to another, with the signiﬁcant risk of not being able to preserve existing levels of quality
of master data.
     Precision. This data quality characteristic should be diﬀerentiated from Accuracy. Pre-
cision is more related to concerns related to the ability to understand that 5.0001 and
5.0002 are diﬀerent values. It can be measured by “Precision of data values” or “Preci-
sion of data format” properties. Low levels of Precision are symptomatic of not adequately
propagating the corresponding precision policies to data source repositories. The study of
this characteristic does not diﬀer much from that of regular data, although it is still vital
to study the quality of the master data.
     Traceability measures the extent to which it is possible to create and follow evidence
for audits about the access and any other changes made to the master data record values
or master data models. In the speciﬁc case of master data, it is desirable to have high
levels of traceability to validate the master data life cycle. This characteristic can be mea-
sured through the properties “Traceability of data values”, “Users access traceability”,
and “Data Value traceability”. Low levels of traceability are symptomatic of a not well-
documented master data life cycle.
806                                             F. Gualo et al.

                                                   Table 4
                               Example of clause extracted from ISO 8000-110.

“The data dictionary shall be accessible in electronic form under the terms of its license in one of the following
ways:
a) The data dictionary entry that contains the supporting terminology is downloadable from the Internet.
b) The data dictionary supports an application programming interface (API), available over the Internet, for
   the resolution of an entity reference to the data dictionary entry that contains the supporting terminology. The
   reference shall be in the form of an unambiguous identiﬁer.
c) The data dictionary entry that contains the supporting terminology is contained physically in the same data
   set as the property value.”



    Understandability. To conveniently exploit master data, users must understand the
meaning of the metadata in dictionaries and other metadata sources that characterize the
data (ISO, 2009). Understandability covers several concerns that can be measured through
several properties like “Symbol understandability”, “Semantic understandability”, “Mas-
ter data understandability”, and “Data model understandability”, to cite a few. Low levels
of Understandability are symptomatic of an ineﬃcient design of the master data system.
The most challenging consequence of low levels of understandability is the risk of pro-
ducing inadequate master data values that can hurt the design.

3.2. Business Rules for Master Data Inferred from ISO 8000-100 Series

This section presents the minimum set of business rules inferred from the ISO 8000-100
series study to be used as a reference for master data quality evaluation and certiﬁcation.
To our knowledge, no other open standard (i.e. developed by ISO or IEEE) explicitly ad-
dresses the business rules to be met by master data. We found only a family of standards
containing requirements for the exchange of characteristic data in master data (see Sec-
tion 2.3) that can be considered as the source of mandatory business rules that master data
repositories must comply with. Consequently, we consider only the normative clauses of
the ISO 8000-100 (mainly ISO 8000-110) series to identify the mandatory business rules.
For instance, Table 4. gathers one of the clauses extracted from ISO 8000-110, which we
inspected to infer and state from sub-clauses a) and b) the following business rule: “BR.01.
Master data dictionary terminology must be available online, downloadable or using an
API and it should be portable”. Following this process, business rules were inferred (see
Table 5). These business rules have been grouped for the various characteristics and prop-
erties (see Table 6) following the BR4DQ methodology (Caballero et al., 2022).
    It is essential to state that in data quality evaluation projects, these business rules are
typically outside the development scope. So, as part of the evaluation, the discovered busi-
ness rules must be mapped against the ones presented here by comparing the correspond-
ing statements.

3.3. Tailoring the Evaluation of the Data Quality Characteristics

The customization of the measurement of the properties of the master data quality model
involves the development of the following components:
                          A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                                807

                                                   Table 5
                                 Business rules inferred from ISO 8000-110.

– BR.01. The possible values of an attribute of the master data record must be stored in a metadata repository
  (i.e. master data dictionary, reference data), which must be available online, downloadable, or accessible by
  using an API and should be portable.
– BR.02 Master data dictionary and master data repository must be accessible anytime, anywhere, from the same
  system or externally deployed.
– BR.03. All master data records must be uniquely identiﬁed, and this identiﬁer must follow a standardized
  syntax broadly recognized by the organization.
– BR.04. All master data records must have a timestamp attribute in a speciﬁc format as UTC and the user who
  modiﬁes each attribute.
– BR.05. The relationship between master data attributes must be deﬁned using their unique identiﬁer.
– BR.06. The information about data provenance of master data records must be reachable.
– BR.07. Master data records must be coded using concepts and references to a data dictionary.
– BR.08. Master data must conform to a data speciﬁcation partially or totally expressed from their metadata.
– BR.09. Master data must conform to a formal syntax following the metadata.
– BR.10. Master data records must indicate their unit of measure if it applies, and this unit of measure must be
  in deﬁned ranges.
– BR.11. Master data record semantics must be deﬁned through their metadata.
– BR.12. Understandability of Master data must be raised and deﬁned through their metadata.
– BR.13. The accuracy of the master data records must be described and achievable through their metadata or
  data speciﬁcation.
– BR.14. Master data records can follow more than a data speciﬁcation; in this case, it must comply with more
  than one formal syntax.
– BR.15. The completeness of master data records must be described using the data speciﬁcation or the metadata
  needs.
– BR.16. Using unique identiﬁers focuses on reducing duplicated records.
– BR.17. Master data records must occupy the space indicated by the metadata to increase system eﬃciency.




• Deﬁne the measurement methods (labelled as ❶ in Fig. 1) for the tailored data quality
  properties introduced in Section 3.1 (see Table 7 for the original description provided in
  ISO/IEC 25024). The tailoring requires speciﬁc business rules (labelled as ❷ in Fig. 1),
  which have been previously presented. For example, in Fig. 1, with the corresponding
  measurement methods, we would obtain 60 for “syntactic precision”, 84 for “semantic
  precision”, and 45 for “master data accuracy assurance”.
• Deﬁne the Quality Value Range Matrix (labelled as ❸ in Fig. 1) to transform the DQ
  properties’ measurements into quality levels. In the framework, the levels of quality
  range between the Likert labels of 1 (the worst) and 5 (the best). Since the original
  ranges cannot be shown because they belong to the Intellectual Property of the owners
  of the framework, we can only present an example. This matrix would transform the
  previously measured value into 3, 4, and 3. A 5-dimensional vector called quality proﬁle
  (labelled as ❹ in Fig. 1) must be mounted with these values. The i-eth position of the
  vector represents the number of properties with an ‘i’ level of quality according to the
  quality. For example, it is possible to mount the quality proﬁle, vector [0, 0, 2, 1, 0]: the
  third position has a value of 2 because two properties have a level “3” of quality. The
  fourth position has a value of 1 because there is only a property with a level of quality
  of “4”.
808                                                 F. Gualo et al.

                                                     Table 6
                 Business rules inferred from ISO 8000-110 grouped for data quality characteristics.

Data quality           Data quality                                   Business
characteristic         property                                       rules
Accuracy               Range of Accuracy                              BR.08, BR.10, BR.13
                       Semantic Accuracy                              BR.01, BR.07, BR.08, BR.11, BR.13
                       Syntactic Accuracy                             BR.03, BR.04, BR.08, BR.09, BR.13, BR.14
Availability           Architecture Elements Availability             BR.01, BR.02
                       Data Availability Ratio                        BR.01, BR.02
                       Data Portability Ratio                         BR.01
Completeness           Data Value Completeness                        BR.05, BR.08, BR.10, BR.15
                       False Completeness of File                     BR.08, BR.15
                       File Completeness                              BR.05, BR.08, BR.15, BR.16
                       Record Completeness                            BR.03, BR.08, BR.10, BR.14, BR.15
Compliance             Regulatory compliance due to technology        BR.01, BR.02
                       Regulatory compliance of value and/or          BR.03, BR.04, BR.07, BR.08, BR.09, BR.14
                       format
Consistency            Format Consistency                             BR.04, BR.05, BR.07, BR.08, BR.09, BR.11
                       Referential Integrity                          BR.05
                       Risk of Inconsistency                          BR.05, BR.07, BR.08, BR.16
                       Semantic Consistency                           BR.05, BR.07, BR.08,
Credibility            Data Values Credibility                        BR.03, BR.06, BR.07, BR.08, BR.09, BR.11,
                                                                      BR.14
                       Source Credibility                             BR.06, BR.08
Currentness            Timeliness of Update                           BR.06
                       Update Frequency                               BR.06
Eﬃciency               Data Format Eﬃciency                           BR.03, BR.04, BR.07, BR.08, BR.09, BR.11,
                                                                      BR.14
                       Risk of Wasted Eﬃciency                        BR.02, BR.05, BR.07, BR.08, BR.09, BR.16,
                                                                      BR.17
                       Space occupied by records duplication          BR.05, BR.08, BR.16
Portability            Architecture Elements Portability              BR.01
Understandability Linked Master Data Understandability                BR.03, BR.05, BR.07, BR.08, BR.09, BR.11,
                                                                      BR.12, BR.14
                       Master Data Understandability                  BR.03, BR.05, BR.06, BR.08, BR.09, BR.11,
                                                                      BR.12, BR.14




                                                    Table 7
              Measurement of ‘Master data understandability’ property adapted from ISO/IEC 25024.

Data quality characteristic      Understandability
Data quality property            Master data understandability (MAD_UND)
Measurement description          Master data understandability focuses on checking if master data is due to the
                                 metadata deﬁnition.
Calculation formula              X = A/B
                                 A = number of data items of master data ﬁles with existing metadata.
                                 B = number of data items of master data ﬁles.
Scale                            Ratio
Value range                      [0.0, 1.0]
                       A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                             809




       Fig. 1. Obtaining the quality level of a DQ Characteristic from DQ properties measurements.




           Fig. 2. Proﬁle functions proposed to evaluate data quality properties characteristics.


• Deﬁne the proﬁling functions (labelled as ❺ in Fig. 1) for every data quality characteris-
  tic to produce a quality level. These proﬁling functions transform the quality proﬁle into
  a quality value. Once again, the proﬁling functions deﬁned in the framework for master
  data cannot be shown due to Intellectual Property restrictions. However, we introduce
  in Fig. 2 several generic proﬁling functions as an example to evaluate data quality char-
  acteristics with (a) two, (b) three, and (c) four measurable properties. Every row (range)
  shows the maximum number of properties at a speciﬁc level. The columns on the right
  include the value of quality for the data quality characteristics. The way to produce the
  characteristics of the quality value for the DQ is to ﬁnd a range containing the maxi-
  mum number of properties at the speciﬁc level. Regarding the example of ‘accuracy’ in
  Fig. 1, with the evaluation proﬁle [0, 0, 2, 1, 0], since accuracy has three properties in
  our master data quality model, the proﬁling function (b) must be chosen. As there are
  two properties with level 3 and 1 with level 4, it is easy to see that the value of quality
  for accuracy is 3.


3.4. Certiﬁable Data Quality Characteristics

Granting a certiﬁcation is a form of precise pointing by independent third parties that a set
of characteristics, merits, or conditions of a fact or good are acceptably adequate. Certiﬁca-
810                                     F. Gualo et al.

tion requires an evaluation with results that are necessarily objective, absolute, repeatable,
unambiguous, unbiased, and comparable without the need to explain the speciﬁc context
in which it has been measured. The data quality evaluation framework can also be used to
certify the level of quality of the master data repository. Following AENOR’s guidelines
(as stated in Gualo et al., 2021) for software and data quality certiﬁcation, the certiﬁcation
of an adequate level of quality for a master data quality characteristic is granted when, at
least, a value of quality of “3” over “5” is obtained.
    The certiﬁcation process typically involves costs that include the evaluation and the
management of the granting of the certiﬁcation. Not all the data quality characteristics
and properties introduced in Section 3.1 are susceptible to be certiﬁable (i.e. they do not
provide relevant information) or worthy (i.e. they change very quickly over time or because
the cost/beneﬁt analysis reveals that they are not good beneﬁts are obtained). To optimize
the costs, we decided to establish a set of selection criteria to discriminate those being
susceptible or worthy to be certiﬁed. The criteria are:
• C1. Eligible master data quality characteristics should provide relevant information on
  the data quality status of the master data repository so that they show non-transitory
  states of upgrading, installing, deploying, or maintaining master data management sys-
  tems. This criterion facilitates achieving absolute results over time, i.e. not relative to
  projects in progress. However, it is important to note that not including such character-
  istics in the certiﬁcation does not mean they are no longer useful. Rather, they would
  not give a potentially actionable idea of an absolute status over time.
• C2. Selected master data quality characteristics have the property(ies) that must rely
  on well-proven measurement methods to produce results independent of any non-
  standard aspects that condition the measurement results, such as the purely tech-
  nical aspects of the systems they manage. These aspects facilitate comparability; that
  is, two diﬀerent organizations measuring the same properties on their respective master
  data repositories can make a clear and independent interpretation of the results regard-
  ing the other organization.
• C3. Measurement methods for the chosen properties should rely on formal audit tech-
  niques to systematically limit or eliminate ambiguities in capturing and evaluating
  the evidence needed to measure the chosen properties. In addition, such techniques
  should promote repeatability of measurements, i.e. diﬀerent and independent groups
  of auditors must obtain the same results on the same master data repositories with the
  same evaluation scope.
• C4. Since the intention is to develop a model that certiﬁes the quality of master data
  concerning the requirements introduced in the ISO 8000-100 series of standards, fol-
  lowing the philosophy introduced in this work, the established criterion is that there
  must be speciﬁc business rules inferred from ISO 8000-100 that can be associated
  to the certiﬁable master data quality characteristic.
• C5. We intend to develop a consistent, simple model with a minimum but enough num-
  ber of data quality characteristics and properties. During the selection process, some
  eligible characteristics may be prioritized to the detriment of others. This prioritization
  is based on the relevance and positive impact of possible results for optimizing the
  organization’s business processes.
                              A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                                          811

                                                        Table 8
                             Proposed characteristics for master data quality certiﬁcation.

DQ Charac.          C1   C2    C3   C4   C5   Selected?   Rationale under the selection as certiﬁable
Accessibility       Y    N     N    N    N    N           The measurement of Accessibility properties heavily depends on
                                                          various types of user disabilities and devices with which users can
                                                          access master data records. For this reason and simplicity,
                                                          accessibility is not initially selected as certiﬁable.
Accuracy            Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           This characteristic meets all criteria, and it is usually very
                                                          relevant. In addition, it is the basis for measuring other
                                                          characteristics, so it is selected.
Availability        Y    Y     Y    Y    N    N           This data quality characteristic fulﬁlls the ﬁrst three principles
                                                          and is relevant to business processes, but the measurement
                                                          depends on many technological concerns; consequently, it is not
                                                          included in this ﬁrst version.
Completeness        Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           Consideration of this data quality characteristic is always
                                                          desirable and relevant for master data records used by diﬀerent
                                                          business processors.
Compliance          Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           This data quality characteristic meets the ﬁrst three principles and
                                                          is relevant to business processes, so it is included in this ﬁrst
                                                          version of the model.
Conﬁdentiality      Y    Y     Y    N    N    N           Despite complying with the ﬁrst three principles, conﬁdentiality
                                                          can be on a second level when it comes to prioritizing the data
                                                          quality characteristics so that in this ﬁrst version, it would not be
                                                          included in the model.
Consistency         Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           This characteristic complies with the ﬁrst three principles, and, in
                                                          addition, it is considered that its measurement and evaluation
                                                          would add value to the organization’s business processes, so it is
                                                          included in this ﬁrst version.
Credibility         Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           Credibility is relevant to the data used by the organization’s
                                                          business processes and satisﬁes the ﬁrst three requirements.
Currentness         Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           This data quality characteristic meets all the above criteria and is
                                                          also a very relevant data quality characteristic for the data in the
                                                          organization’s business processes.
Eﬃciency            Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           Eﬃciency fulﬁlls all criteria and is also very relevant for master
                                                          data management.
Portability         N    Y     Y    Y    N    N           Although this characteristic could meet criteria 2 and 3, it is not
                                                          initially selected because it would not be an initially relevant
                                                          characteristic, and its study would be included in very restricted
                                                          and speciﬁc areas in managing master data.
Precision           Y    Y     Y    Y    Y    Y           This characteristic is directly related to accuracy, and it is also
                                                          crucial to study eﬃciency. Therefore, it is very relevant for
                                                          certiﬁcation. In addition, it would meet the ﬁrst three criteria.
Recoverability      Y    Y     N    N    N    N           It is considered that this characteristic would have a second-order
                                                          level of relevance as it deals with speciﬁc aspects of master data
                                                          management, so it would not be included in the ﬁrst version of the
                                                          model.
Traceability        Y    Y     Y    N    N    N           This data quality characteristic is very relevant in the case of
                                                          master data since the values of master data attributes come from
                                                          diﬀerent data repositories. However, it is not included in this ﬁrst
                                                          version for two reasons: (1) it does not have a signiﬁcant
                                                          contribution directly to the exploitation of master data, and (2) its
                                                          implementation would require the inclusion of much metadata
                                                          that may be diﬃcult to include for most organizations, at least for
                                                          the less mature ones.
Understandability   N    Y     N    Y    N    N           This characteristic would be considered the basis for credibility to
                                                          establish a good relationship between understandability and
                                                          credibility. In this sense, to simplify the model, we decided not to
                                                          include it in this ﬁrst version.



   Table 8 shows a complete overview of the proposed certiﬁable subset of data quality
characteristics for the evaluation of master data repositories once the criteria are applied.
   Once the certiﬁable data quality characteristics were selected, the next step was to
identify the underlying data quality properties that can contribute notably to evaluating
812                                            F. Gualo et al.

                                                    Table 9
               Proposed data quality characteristics and properties for master data certiﬁcation.

Certiﬁable DQ # DQ properties      DQ Property                 Selected DQ
Characteristic considered          Acronym                     Properties
Accuracy        3                  EXAC_SEMAN                  Semantic Accuracy
                                   EXAC_SINT                   Syntatic Accuracy
                                   ASEG_EXAC_MD                Master Data Accuracy Assurance
Completeness    4                  COMP_REG_MD                 Master data record completeness
                                   COMP_FICH_MDM               Master data ﬁle completeness
                                   FAL_COMP_FICH_MD            Empty master data record in a master data ﬁle
                                   COMP_VAL_DM                 Completeness of Master Data Values
Compliance      2                  COMPL_REG_TEC               Regulatory compliance due to technology
                                   COMPL_REG_VAL               Regulatory compliance of value and/or format
Consistency     4                  CONS_FORM_DM                Master data format consistency
                                   CONS_SEMAN_DM               Master data semantic consistency
                                   INT_REF                     Referential Integrity
                                   RIES_INCO_DM                Risk of master data inconsistency
Credibility     2                  CRED_FUEN                   Master data repository credibility
                                   CRED_VAL_DM                 Credibility of master data value
Currentness     2                  CONV_ACT                    Timeliness of update
                                   FREC_ACT                    Update frequency
Eﬃciency        3                  EFIC_FORM_DM                Eﬃcient master data item format
                                   EFIC_DUP_REGDM              Space occupied by master data records
                                                               duplication
                                   RIES_ESPAC_DESP             Risk of wasted space
Precision       1                  PRE_VAL_MD                  Precision of Master Data Values




the data quality characteristics. For this second level of selection, we listed three criteria:
(1) the measurement of the property must be done in an objective and repeatable way;
(2) there must be speciﬁc business rules inferred from ISO 8000-100 that can be used as
the basis for the measurement; and (3) the measurement of the property must be relevant
and consistent to measure the data quality characteristics. Table 9 shows the data quality
model with the list of certiﬁable data quality characteristics and the selected speciﬁc data
quality properties.



4. Case Study

The primary purpose of the case study is to validate that the model is complete, minimal,
and contains all the data quality characteristics relevant to master data. It is entirely usable
in the real world. Thus, this section describes the application of the framework for master
data evaluation to a real case study following the methodology based on ISO/IEC 25040,
which is further described in Gualo et al. (2021). This methodology consists of ﬁve steps.
To make the paper brief, we only present some speciﬁc details for only two data quality
characteristics (Accuracy and Eﬃciency), although all results are shown.
                        A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                                813

                                                   Table 10
             List attributes, descriptions, and example values from the master data repository.

Attribute    Example valid values                        Description
User_Id      “12345678A”                                 The Spanish identiﬁer for each person.
Email        “nsurname@company.es”                       The email account for each person
Categories   [“Software Engineer I”, “Software           A list of the diﬀerent categories in the company.
             Engineer I”, “Hardware Engineer”,
             “Analyst-Developer”]
Department   [“Human Resources”, “Accountability”,       A list of the several departments in the company.
             “IT area”, “Management”]
DateAdded    “2017-01-08T19:12:13Z”                      The date the persona was ﬁrst added to the master
                                                         data repository.


                                               Table 11
                                Example of metadata in data speciﬁcation.

                      Attribute             “User_Id”
                      Type                  String          Nullable            False
                      Default value         00000000A       Unique              Yes
                      Min Length            9               Max length          10
                      Speciﬁc range         No              Encoded             Yes
                      Speciﬁc syntax        Yes             Mandatory           Yes
                      REGEXP                [0-9]{8} [A-Z]{1}



4.1. Description of the Data from the Evaluated Master Data Repository

The evaluated master data repository integrates several data sources of a software com-
pany (called the ‘Client’) to provide a 360º view of employees. In this sense, the master
data repository is part of the organizational data lake, and the whole organization uses it
through diﬀerent departments with diﬀerent goals. Unfortunately, we were not allowed to
provide further information about the organization that owns the master data repository.
    This master data repository and data dictionary was implemented in a relational
database management system (MySQL 5.7.6) to enable the required SQL queries nec-
essary to compute the data quality measures. The master data repository comprises 48
master data attributes with 59,387 records. Several triggers were implemented in the mas-
ter data repository to track the changes in the master data records values. Table 10 shows
an excerpt of the most representative attributes, their description, and an example of the
valid value they can take. An example of metadata for the attribute “User_Id” is shown
in Table 11. Finally, there is a data dictionary containing the reference data that should be
used in assigning a value to an attribute when necessary. In this case, the data dictionary
is organized into levels. Table 12 shows an excerpt from this data dictionary.

4.2. Evaluation of the Quality of the Master Data Repository

As part of Activity 1. Establishment of the evaluation requirement, the Client’s team
presented the master data repository along with design and implementation details, in-
cluding the business rules governing the validity of the data in the master data repository.
814                                             F. Gualo et al.

                                                    Table 12
                                  Excerpt of Data dictionary for the case study.

                        Level 1                Level 2
                                               Reference           Value
                        Department             DPT0001             Human Resources
                        Department             DPT0002             Accountability
                        Department             DPT0003             IT area
                        Category               CAT0001             Software Engineer I
                        Category               CAT0002             Hardware Engineer I


                                                Table 13
        Matching between sets of mandatory and obtained business rules for the master data repository.

Mandatory      Business rules obtained from the master data repository of the case study.
business rules
BR.01          Master data dictionary and master data repository are portable in CSV and JSON format.
BR.02          Master data dictionary and master data repository are deployed in MySQL 5.7.6.
BR.03          The “Id_User” or “Email” attribute uniquely identiﬁes each master data record.
BR.04          The “DateLastUpdated” and “UserLastUpdated” attribute identiﬁes the last update date.
BR.05          The relation between data values with the data dictionary entries is using this unique identiﬁer
               (i.e. the “Department”
               attribute takes the value “DPT0001”, which is the entry in the data dictionary which represents
               the Human Resources department.)
BR.06          Every master data record has the attributes “DateLastUpdated” and “UserLastUpdated” to
               reach the changes in the master data repository.
BR.07          Some attributes like “User_Id” must be encoded.
BR08           The “User_Id” attribute must not be null or unique and follow the speciﬁed regular expression.
BR.09          “User_Id” must follow this syntax (i.e. 00000000A)
BR.10          The “EnglishLanguageLevel” attribute indicates the unit of measure for their language
               aptitudes (i.e. Cambridge B1, Trinity B1).
BR.11          Data dictionary entries specify the semantics for data values.
BR.12          Data dictionary entries specify the semantics for the understandability of data values.
BR.13          “User_Id” accuracy is deﬁned with min and max lengths in their metadata or data speciﬁcation.
BR.14          In this case, it is not applicable.
BR.15          ““Id” must not be null because it is part of the unique identiﬁer for each master data record.
BR.16          The “Id_User” and “Email” attributes help to reduce the duplicity.
BR.17          The data speciﬁcation deﬁnes the maximum length of space occupied for each data type.



Afterward, it was decided that the scope of the evaluation would include all certiﬁable
master data quality characteristics (see Table 9).
    As the master data quality granted for a data quality certiﬁcation, the business rules
required for evaluating the selected data quality characteristics must be assimilated to the
reference set of business rules identiﬁed in Table 6.
    This action was done using the metadata and the provided study of the data model. For
example, through the example metadata in Table 11, some business rules were identiﬁed:
“User_Id is mandatory, so it cannot be null and not duplicated”, “User_Id max length
is 10, so the attribute must not support more space” and “User_Id must follow the spe-
ciﬁc formal syntax: [0-9]8 [A-Z]1”, . . . (see Table 13). Conducting this analysis for each
attribute in the master data model and considering the data dictionary, too, 567 business
                     A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                   815

                                             Table 14
                 SQL script example to evaluate EXACS I N T data quality property.

SELECT COUNT (*)
FROM ‘SwFact_MDM_Repository’
WHERE ‘SwFact_MDM_Repository‘.User_Id REGEXP ‘^[0-9]{8} [A-Za-z-]{1}$’ AND ‘SwFact_MDM_
Repository‘.dateadded
REGEXP ‘^[0-9]{4}-[0-9]{2}-[0-9]{2}T[0-9]{2}:[0-9]{2}:[0-9]{2}$’



rules were identiﬁed for the ‘Employee’ repository and conveniently grouped for every
data quality characteristic. The execution of this activity included, as part of the plan for
master data quality evaluation, some agreements on granting of permissions to access the
master data repository, the necessary security restrictions (that is, VPN connection), the
working schedule restrictions for the connection in order not to interfere with the orga-
nization’s operational activities, as well as the time frame in which the evaluation results
should be provided. In this regard, it is worth noting that although a data access service
layer has been enabled to run the evaluation more eﬃciently, and given the experimental
nature of the case study, the Client allowed access to the master data through a repository
clone.
    In Activity 2. Speciﬁcation of the evaluation, the measurement methods, and corre-
sponding quality levels for the measures of each data quality property were introduced so
that the organization can understand the evaluation results and their impact on the business
process. This understanding allows reﬁnement of the information provided for the master
data repository. It also enables ﬁne-tuning the implementation details of the business rules
for the data repository. The evaluation team uses the acquired knowledge when conduct-
ing Activity 4 to develop the elements required to generate the speciﬁc measurements. In
this sense, some data quality properties may be measured by inspecting the results of SQL
scripts (see Table 14). In contrast, others may require other mechanisms for data extrac-
tion, such as queries to data dictionaries, system logs, or the development and execution
of speciﬁc programs beyond SQL scripts.
    During the execution of Activity 3. Evaluation design, the scope of the evaluation is
reﬁned to the core of what is to be evaluated and is fully deﬁned in detail. Once the scope
is delimited, the evaluation plan is fully established with the particularized activities and
tasks to execute the evaluation.
    In the execution of Activity 4. Conducting the evaluation, the objective is to obtain
the quality level for the selected data quality characteristics following the evaluation plan
deﬁned and reﬁned during Activities 1 to 3. The tasks required in the execution of this
activity (recall Fig. 1) are the following:
T.4.1. Design the evaluation scripts and the necessary mechanisms for checking the
validity of the business rules, considering the intrinsic or system-dependent nature of the
characteristics to be evaluated. Taking as input (1) the business rules already assimilated
to the reference set of business rules for the master data repository and grouped for each
data quality characteristic and each property, (2) any other documentation provided by the
organization seeking evaluation, and (3) the information obtained in the meetings during
816                                          F. Gualo et al.

                                               Table 15
                          SQL script example to evaluate EFICF ORMD M data
                                           quality property.

                        SELECT * FROM information_schema.TABLES
                        WHERE TABLE_NAME = ‘SwFact_MDM_Repository’



                                                  Table 16
               Results of the application of the measurement methods for the DQ properties.

DQ              DQ property              Measure                          Obtained value from the
characteristics                          description                      execution of the evaluation script
Accuracy       Syntactic accuracy       Number of data elements with      740
                                        syntactically correct values
Accuracy       Syntactic accuracy       Number of data elements           870
                                        required to have syntactically
                                        accurate values
Eﬃciency       Risk of wasted space     Size in bytes of space occupied   250588
                                        due to duplicate records
Eﬃciency       Space occupied by master Size in bytes occupied due to     225530
               data records duplication unduplicated records



Activity 1, the evaluation team develops a set of evaluation scripts together with other
technological mechanisms necessary to check the degree of compliance of each of the
business rules deﬁned for each entity in the scope of the evaluation. For example, Table 14
shows an example of an evaluation script that aims to check compliance with business rule
BR.09 of Table 5 groups under the quality property “Syntactic Accuracy” for the Accuracy
Data Quality characteristic, or even Table 15 shows an evaluation script for the evaluation
of the property “Eﬃcient Master Data Item Format” of the Eﬃciency characteristic.
T.4.2. Execution of the evaluation scripts and the mechanisms necessary to check the
business rules. Following the evaluation plan, the evaluation scripts or the correspond-
ing mechanism for each master data entity are executed, as well as any other instruments
developed to obtain the base measures for measuring each data quality property for each
chosen characteristic. From the results of this run, the weaknesses and strengths of each
data quality property can be proﬁled. For example, Table 16 shows some of the results
obtained after the execution of one of the evaluation scripts designed to measure the indi-
cated properties on the master data repository of the case studied.
T.4.3. Production of the quality value for the quality properties. The results obtained
from the evaluation scripts (see Table 16) are used to calculate the measurement values
of each data quality property by applying the corresponding measurement functions con-
veniently tailored for every master data entity (see Section 3.3). As an example, the prop-
erty “Semantic Accuracy” (EXAC_SINT ) would be measured by the formula presented in
Eq. (1), obtaining a value of 100, and the property “Space occupied by record duplica-
tion” (EFIC_DUP_REGDM) calculated by the formula shown in Eq. (2) obtained a value
of 95. The results for the measurements of all data quality properties considered for the
                         A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                                  817




  Fig. 3. The value obtained for data quality properties during the evaluation of the master data repository.


case study are shown in Fig. 3.

     EXAC_SINT
                      NumberOfDataElementsWithSintactycValues
         =                                                                  ,                               (1)
             NumberofDataElementsRequiringtoHaveSyntacticallyAccurateValues
     EFIC_DUP_REGDM
          SizeInBytesOfSpaceOccupiedDueToDuplicateRecords
       =                                                   .                                                (2)
         SizeInBytesOccupiedDueToRecordsWithoutDuplication

    These measurement values should be then analysed and discussed to collate the weak-
nesses and strengths previously identiﬁed for each data quality property to ratify and iden-
tify critical aspects that can be improved. It is important to note that although the deﬁnition
of the measurement method follows ISO/IEC 25024, its application requires customiza-
tion in terms of the speciﬁc semantics of the master data entities under evaluation and the
technological aspects of the system of which the evaluated data repository is part.
T.4.4. Derivation of the quality level of data quality properties from their quality
value. Data quality characteristics are evaluated using a speciﬁc proﬁling function (see
Section 3.3) that requires an intermediate step in which the quality values of each data
quality property are transformed into quality levels using a quality value range matrix. As
an example, using the one provided in Fig. 1, “Syntactic Accuracy”, which obtained a mea-
sure of 85, is mapped to 4, “Semantic accuracy”, which obtained a value of 100, is mapped
to 5, “Master Data Accuracy Assurance”, obtained 100 is mapped to 5, and “Space oc-
cupied by duplication of master records”, which obtained a value of 90 is mapped to 5.
With these results, the corresponding quality proﬁles for accuracy are represented by the
vector [0, 0, 0, 0, 3], and for Eﬃciency, the corresponding vector is [0, 0, 0, 1, 2].
818                                             F. Gualo et al.




 Fig. 4. Data quality level results for each data quality characteristic in the master data repository evaluation.


T.4.5. Determination of the quality level for the selected data quality characteristics.
Based on the data quality level for each data quality property, the next step is to generate the
values of quality for the selected data quality characteristics by applying the corresponding
proﬁling function introduced in Fig. 2 (the selection depends on the number of properties
chosen for every data quality evaluation). See Fig. 4 for the results of the application to
the “Employee” master data repository for all selected master data quality characteristics.
     Finally, Activity 5: Conclude data quality evaluation produces a detailed evaluation
report reﬂecting the quality levels achieved for the selected data quality characteristics
and the values obtained for the corresponding quality properties. For example, the data
problems encountered during the evaluation of the data quality characteristic Accuracy are
related to the EXAC_SINT property. These problems happened because some attributes
did not follow the speciﬁed syntax. After all, they take null values. Along the same lines,
it is possible to state that some of the data problems encountered during the evaluation of
the data quality characteristic Eﬃciency were as follows:
• EFIC_FORM_DM did not meet the maximum quality value for the data quality prop-
  erty because some master data records did not meet the speciﬁc format (i.e. “phoneEx-
  tension”).
• RIES_ESPAC_DESP did not reach the maximum quality value for the data quality prop-
  erty because the space reserved for the attributes was much larger than the space needed
  to store the data value (i.e. “phoneNumber”)
    In addition to the evaluation report, a comprehensive improvement report can be pre-
pared and provided to the organization, detailing the weaknesses and strengths of each
measured data quality property. This improvement report focuses on the properties that
did not achieve an adequate level of quality. It details the causes of those low levels so that
                     A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                  819

the organization can take steps to improve them. In addition, the organization provides
a set of scripts to identify speciﬁc records that require improvement actions. Finally, to
complete the evaluation, the access permissions to the master data repository and other
assets needed for data quality evaluation are removed or revoked.

4.3. Discussion and Principal Findings of the Case Study

Explanations can be split into two parts to demonstrate the validity of the proposed work.
On the one hand, the data quality evaluation framework has already been tested and vali-
dated (Gualo et al., 2021). On the other hand, we intended to validate the proposed master
data quality model. In this sense, through the case study, we could check that evaluating
the data quality characteristics included and revisited in the proposed model can provide
helpful information to monitor and improve the quality of the master data repository. In
all contexts, master data quality analysts must select those providing this valuable infor-
mation. In this sense, it is a matter for the data quality analysts to choose the minimum
number of data quality characteristics that can provide the required information. On the
other hand, since the case study has been conducted on a master data repository of a soft-
ware industry, we can conclude that the proposed master data quality model is applicable
in the real world – even when we recognize that only one case could not be enough to
generalize this last statement. However, we assume some threats to the validity of our
proposal (see Section 5).
    In addition, after analysing the process of conducting the case study, we have reached
a series of ﬁndings:
• The need to have a complete and widely accepted shared master data deﬁnition
  to improve the understandability of the master data schema. In this case study,
  the master data schema consists of 48 attributes. It is hard for stakeholders and data
  quality analysts to manage, even when it is not a large number, without an adequate
  description. Additionally, it is not easy to understand how to manage the level of data
  quality for these attributes. Summarizing: Without knowing the meaning of the master
  data entities and their attributes, the data quality evaluation lost its sense.
• The need to have a complete data dictionary for usability. In our study case, a data
  dictionary containing metadata about the master data repository is available. This data
  dictionary includes data types, business rules (i.e. describing allowed values), and other
  necessary metadata related to the number of elements and non-empty attributes. Some-
  thing important to note is that some metadata can be used to compute the data quality
  measurement, but per se, they are not data quality measures. This fact has made the
  deﬁnition and implementation of the measurement method easier for us for the various
  master data quality properties selected for evaluation. In addition, to better manage the
  evolution of the data quality evaluations, we saw it necessary to attach the version of
  the data dictionary to the version of the results of measuring the data quality proper-
  ties. Summarizing: the more it is known about the master data using metadata, the better
  deﬁnition of the master data quality measures, and the more insights it is possible to
  obtain from the evaluation to guide improvements to the master data repository better.
820                                     F. Gualo et al.

• The need to have adequate technological and organizational support for the master
  data repository. The measurements were produced outside any business context and
  without technological, business, or temporal restrictions for the case study. In a diﬀer-
  ent business scenario, the master data quality evaluation should coexist with other data-
  related operations. From the technological perspective, the information system should
  support the evaluation processes to produce adequate evaluation results. From the busi-
  ness point of view, management should guide the evaluation process to not interfere
  with the business processes that consume data from the master data repository. How-
  ever, this fact is usually mitigated as the master data follows the principle “write once,
  update little, read many”. Furthermore, from the material or timeliness point of view,
  even when the changing pace of the master data is plodding, the evaluation processes
  should be adequately synchronized with the update so that the correct values are read
  during the evaluation. In summary, the most mature organizations (those with enough
  selected and deployed technologies, well-organized master data governance processes,
  and correctly deﬁned business processes) obtain better results for evaluating the quality
  of the master data repository.


5. Threats to the Validity

In the following subsections, the threats to the validity of this initial state of the framework
are analysed based on the aspects identiﬁed (Runeson et al., 2012; Runeson and Höst,
2009). Construct validity. In the certiﬁcation model, we included eight certiﬁable data
quality characteristics and 21 data quality properties in the proposed model (see Table 9)
because, from our experience and through the study of the related literature, we considered
that it could be successfully used in most scenarios. Another possible threat to construct
validity could be grounded on the results’ domain dependency (i.e. CRM, ERP, PDM,
. . . ). Still, given the genericity of the deﬁnition of the measurement procedures, we pose
that it could be easily tailored to the speciﬁcs of any domain. Finally, the last threat to the
construct validity is the principled threshold values we deﬁne for the quality value range
matrix and the proﬁling functions. This decision was based on our experience conducting
a data quality evaluation of relational repositories (Gualo et al., 2021). However, it is
essential to recall that the values we use in industrial projects cannot be shared because
they belong to the owners of the data quality evaluation and certiﬁcation framework.
       Internal validity. A threat to the internal validity of the proposed framework could
be the quality and stability of the business rules used during the deﬁnition and tailoring
of the measurement of every data quality property. Especially important for the sake of a
compliance certiﬁcation to ISO 8000-110 is the selection of business rules that we infer
from the ISO 8000-100 series. Nevertheless, to the extent of our knowledge, there are no
more international open standards speciﬁcally addressing master data. However, if some
new related open standards appear, the set of references to business rules can be revisited
to cover the requirements introduced.
       External validity. The proposed master data quality model must be applied to com-
panies and organizations to increase external validity. However, complying with several
ISO standards generally ensures a certain level of applicability to all domains.
                     A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                   821

6. Conclusions

Master data is one of the unique types of data in organizations. It holds the knowledge that
the organization needs for their day-by-day operations, i.e. they are the reference for the
transactional data. This capability of being referenced means that the master data values
are propagated through the organizations as master data is used for other purposes, i.e.
transactional purposes. Consequently, if the values stored in the master data repository
do not have adequate levels of quality, then low-quality data are propagated through the
entire organization and maybe externally.
    In this paper, we presented a data quality model for evaluating the quality of master
data repositories. This master data quality model can be used with the evaluation frame-
work we developed. This evaluation framework has been successfully used to evaluate the
quality of repositories of regular data repositories. Master data has speciﬁc features be-
yond regular data (i.e. transactional relational data) that make necessary the investigation
of the particular concerns of master data quality. The tailoring of the data quality model
involves the speciﬁc deﬁnition of the quality value range matrix and the corresponding
proﬁling functions. As these elements are under the Intellectual Property protection of
the owners of the data quality evaluation frameworks (they are exploiting the framework
commercially), we have been allowed only to show examples of these elements.
    Sometimes, granting a certiﬁcation of the level of quality can improve the trustworthi-
ness of a master data repository. Only some of the 15 data quality characteristics included
in the data quality model are susceptible or worthy of certiﬁcation. To limit the scope of
certiﬁcation and improve the usability of the results, we deﬁned ﬁve criteria used to select
data quality characteristics relevant to the business or the information systems if certiﬁed.
    The results obtained either from evaluation or the certiﬁcation process can be used to
identify the most critical points or risks for a master data repository, enabling the guiding
and optimization of the eﬀorts in ﬁxing errors and, consequently, making the master data
an essential asset of the organization.
    The most important conclusions we can raise are that the presented version of the
data quality model is suﬃciently complete and comprehensive to be used in master data
quality evaluation and certiﬁcation projects, easily understandable, and combined with
the developed framework, it is applicable in the real world.


Acknowledgements

We would like Natalia Sánchez for her impressive support in formatting the manuscript.

Funding

The following projects and grants have partially funded this research: Industrial PhD
(Ref.: DIN2018-009705), funded by the Spanish Ministry of Science, Innovation and
Universities; ADAGIO (SBPLY/21/180501/000061) – Alarcos’ Data Governance frame-
work and systems generation, funded by the Department of Education, Culture and Sports
822                                             F. Gualo et al.

of the Junta de Comunidades de Castilla La Mancha, Spain, and the Fondo Europeo de
Desarrollo Regional FEDER; and AETHER-UCLM: A smart data holistic approach for
context-aware data analytics focused on Quality and Security project (Spanish Ministry
of Science and Innovation, PID2020-112540RB-C42)


References

Allen, M., Cervo, D. (Eds.) (2015). Multi-Domain Master Data Management: Advanced MDM and Data Gov-
   ernance in Practice. Morgan Kaufmann, Boston, USA. 978-0-12-800835-5. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-
   0-12-800835-5.09993-0.
Alonso, V., Santos, J.V., Pinto, M., Ferreira, J., Lema, I., Lopes, F., Freitas, A. (2020). Problems and barriers
   during the process of clinical coding: a focus group study of Coders’ perceptions. Journal of Medical Systems,
   44(3), 62. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10916-020-1532-x.
Benkherourou, C., Bourouis, A. (2022). A framework for improving data quality throughout the MDM imple-
   mentation process. In: Proceedins of the 2nd International Conference on Industry 4.0 and Artiﬁcial Intelli-
   gence (ICIAI 2021). Atlantis Press International B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands, pp. 164–169. 978-94-6239-
   528-2. https://doi.org/10.2991/aisr.k.220201.029.
Berson, A., Dubov, L. (2011). Master Data Management and Data Governance, 2nd ed. McGraw-Hill Educa-
   tion, USA. 978-0-07-174458-4.
Caballero, I., Gualo, F., Rodríguez, M., Piattini, M. (2022). BR4DQ: a methodology for grouping business rules
   for data quality evaluation. Information Systems, 109, 102058. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.is.2022.102058.
Cleven, A., Wortmann, F. (2010). Uncovering four strategies to approach master data management. In: Pro-
   ceedings of the 43rd Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, pp. 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1109/
   HICSS.2010.488.
Dahlberg, T., Heikkilä, J., Heikkilä, M. (2011). Framework and research agenda for master data management in
   distributed environments. In: Proceedings of IRIS 2011, TUCS Lecture Notes, Vol. 15, pp. 82–90. 978-952-
   12-2648-9.
Dreibelbis, A., Hechler, E., Milman, I., Oberhofer, M., Run, P.v., Wolfson, D. (2008). Enterprise Master Data
   Management: An SOA Approach to Managing Core Information. IBM Press/Pearson plc, London, UK. 978-
   0-13-236625-0.
Fan, W., Geerts, F., Ma, S., Tang, N., Yu, W. (2013). Data Quality Problems beyond Consistency and Dedupli-
   cation. In: Tannen, V., Wong, L., Libkin, L., Fan, W., Tan, W.-C., Fourman, M. (Eds.), In Search of Elegance
   in the Theory and Practice of Computation: Essays Dedicated to Peter Buneman. Lecture Notes in Computer
   Science. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, pp. 237–249. 978-3-642-41660-6. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-
   41660-6_12.
Gartner, I. (2021). Magic Quadrant™ for Master Data Management Solutions. https://www.informatica.com/
   magic-quadrant-MDM.html.
Gualo, F., Caballero, I., Rodriguez, M. (2020). Towards a software quality certiﬁcation of master data-based
   applications. Software Quality Journal, 28(3), 1019–1042. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11219-019-09495-w.
Gualo, F., Rodriguez, M., Verdugo, J., Caballero, I., Piattini, M. (2021). Data quality certiﬁcation using ISO/IEC
   25012: industrial experiences. Journal of Systems and Software, 176, 110938. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.
   2021.110938.
Haneem, F., Ali, R., Kama, N., Basri, S. (2017). Resolving data duplication, inaccuracy and inconsistency issues
   using Master Data Management. In: Proceedings of the 2017 International Conference on Research and
   Innovation in Information Systems (ICRIIS), pp. 1–6. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICRIIS.2017.8002453.
Haneem, F., Kama, N., Taskin, N., Pauleen, D., Abu Bakar, N.A. (2019). Determinants of master data manage-
   ment adoption by local government organizations: an empirical study. International Journal of Information
   Management, 45, 25–43. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2018.10.007.
Hüner, K.M., Schierning, A., Otto, B., Österle, H. (2011). Product data quality in supply chains: the case of
   Beiersdorf. Electronic Markets, 21(2), 141–154. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-011-0059-x.
Ibrahim, A., Mohamed, I., Satar, N.S.M. (2021). Factors inﬂuencing master data quality: a systematic review.
   International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 12(2). https://doi.org/10.14569/
   IJACSA.2021.0120224.
                          A Data Quality Model for Master Data Repositories                                  823

ISO (2009). ISO 8000-110:2009. Data quality — Part 110: Master data: Exchange of characteristic data: Syn-
    tax, semantic encoding, and conformance to data speciﬁcation. (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO.
    https://www.iso.org/standard/51653.html.
ISO (2011). ISO/TS 8000-150:2011. Data quality — Part 150: Master data: Quality management framework
    (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO. https://www.iso.org/standard/54579.html.
ISO (2016a). ISO 8000-100:2016. Data quality — Part 100: Master data: Exchange of characteristic data:
    Overview. (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO. https://www.iso.org/standard/62392.html.
ISO (2016b). ISO 8000-120:2016. Data quality — Part 120: Master data: Exchange of characteristic data: Prove-
    nance. (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO. https://www.iso.org/standard/62393.html.
ISO (2016c). ISO 8000-130:2016. Data quality — Part 130: Master data: Exchange of characteristic data: Ac-
    curacy. (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO. https://www.iso.org/standard/62394.html.
ISO (2016d). ISO 8000-140:2016. Data quality — Part 140: Master data: Exchange of characteristic data: Com-
    pleteness. (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO. https://www.iso.org/standard/62395.html.
ISO (2018). ISO 8000-115:2018. Data quality — Part 115: Master data: Exchange of quality identiﬁers: Syn-
    tactic, semantic and resolution requirements. (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO. https://www.iso.
    org/standard/70095.html.
ISO (2019). ISO 8000-116:2019. Data quality — Part 116: Master data: Exchange of quality identiﬁers: Appli-
    cation of ISO 8000-115 to authoritative legal entity identiﬁers. (Data Quality) [International Standard]. ISO.
    https://www.iso.org/standard/75117.html.
ISO/IEC (2008). ISO/IEC 25012:2008. Software engineering — Software product Quality Requirements
    and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — Data quality model. [International Standard]. ISO/IEC. https://www.iso.org/
    standard/35736.html.
ISO/IEC (2011). ISO/IEC 25040:2011. Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality
    Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — Evaluation process. [International Standard]. ISO/IEC. https:
    //www.iso.org/standard/35765.html.
ISO/IEC (2015). ISO/IEC 25024:2015. Systems and software engineering — Systems and software Quality
    Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — Measurement of data quality. [International Standard]. ISO/IEC.
    https://www.iso.org/standard/35749.html.
Li, S.-H., Chen, J.-L., Yen, D.C., Lin, Y.-H. (2013). Investigation on auditing principles and rules for PDM/PLM
    system implementation. Computers in Industry, 64(6), 741–753. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2013.
    04.007.
Loshin, D. (2010). Master Data Management. Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, USA. 978-0-08-092121-1.
Merino, J. (2017). I25k: Environment for the Evaluation and Certiﬁcation of the Quality of Data Products. PhD
    thesis, University of Castilla-La Mancha.
Ofner, M.H., Otto, B., Österle, H. (2012). Integrating a data quality perspective into business process man-
    agement. Business Process Management Journal, 18(6), 1036–1067. https://doi.org/10.1108/146371512
    11283401.
Otto, B. (2015). Quality and value of the data resource in large enterprises. Information Systems Management,
    32(3), 234–251. https://doi.org/10.1080/10580530.2015.1044344.
Otto, B., Ebner, V., Hüner, K. (2010). Measuring master data quality: ﬁndings from a case study. In: AMCIS
    2010 Proceedings. https://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2010/454.
Piedrabuena, F., González, L., Ruggia, R. (2015). Enforcing Data Protection Regulations within e-Government
    Master Data Management Systems. In: Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Enterprise In-
    formation Systems (ICEIS 2015), ICEIS 2015, Vol. 3. SCITEPRESS – Science and Technology Publications,
    Lda, Setubal, PRT, pp. 316–321. 978-989-758-098-7. https://doi.org/10.5220/0005458003160321.
Rivas, B., Merino, J., Caballero, I., Serrano, M., Piattini, M. (2017). Towards a service architecture for master
    data exchange based on ISO 8000 with support to process large datasets. Computer Standards & Interfaces,
    54, 94–104. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csi.2016.10.004.
Runeson, P., Höst, M. (2009). Guidelines for conducting and reporting case study research in software engineer-
    ing. Empirical Software Engineering, 14(2), 131–164. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-008-9102-8.
Runeson, P., Host, M., Rainer, A., Regnell, B. (2012). Case Study Research in Software Engineering: Guidelines
    and Examples. John Wiley & Sons, New Jersey. 978-1-118-10435-4.
Santos, J.V., Novo, R., Souza, J., Lopes, F., Freitas, A. (2021). Transition from ICD-9-CM to ICD-10-CM/PCS
    in Portugal: an heterogeneous implementation with potential data implications. Health Information Manage-
    ment Journal, 52(2), 128–131. https://doi.org/10.1177/18333583211027241.
824                                           F. Gualo et al.

Silvola, R., Jaaskelainen, O., Kropsu-Vehkapera, H., Haapasalo, H. (2011). Managing one master data – chal-
   lenges and preconditions. Industrial Management & Data Systems, 111(1), 146–162. https://doi.org/10.1108/
   02635571111099776.
Talburt, J.R. (Ed.) (2011). Entity Resolution and Information Quality. Elsevier, Boston, USA. 978-0-12-381973-
   4. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-381972-7.00016-6.
Valencia-Parra, Á., Parody, L., Varela-Vaca, Á.J., Caballero, I., Gómez-López, M.T. (2021). DMN4DQ: when
   data quality meets DMN. Decision Support Systems, 141, 113450. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dss.2020.113450.
Vilminko-Heikkinen, R., Pekkola, S. (2017). Master data management and its organizational implementation:
   an ethnographical study within the public sector. Journal of Enterprise Information Management, 30(3),
   454–475. https://doi.org/10.1108/JEIM-07-2015-0070.
Wand, Y., Wang, R.Y. (1996). Anchoring Data Quality Dimensions in Ontological Foundations. Communica-
   tions of the ACM, 39(11), 86–95. https://doi.org/10.1145/240455.240479.




F. Gualo holds PhD and MSc degrees in computer science from the University of Castilla-
La Mancha. He is currently the founder and CEO of the spin-oﬀ of the University of
Castilla-La Mancha DQTeam. He is a Certiﬁed Information System Auditor (CISA) for
the Information System Audit and Control Association (ISACA) since 2017 and a Soft-
ware Engineering Auditor for AENOR since 2018. He has been a part of the ALARCOS
Research Group since 2015. His research interests include master data management and
data quality
I. Caballero received his MSc and PhD degrees in computer science from the Univer-
sity of Castilla-La Mancha (Spain) in 2004. He has worked as an associate professor in
the Information Systems and Technologies Department at UCLM since 2001, and he was
appointed as a training head of the spin-oﬀ DQTeam in 2017. Caballero holds CISA cer-
tiﬁcation from ISACA in 2016 and CDO-1 certiﬁcation by UALR-MIT since 2017. He is
currently a member of ISO TC184/SC4, a project editor of several parts of the ISO 8000-
60 series development project, and an ISO 8000-62 project editor. His research interests
are focused on data quality management and data governance.
M. Rodríguez received the MSc and PhD degrees in computer science from the Uni-
versity of Castilla-La Mancha. He is currently the CEO of AQCLab, the ﬁrst accredited
laboratory for software quality assessment using ISO/IEC 25000. He is a Certiﬁed Infor-
mation System Auditor (CISA) and a Chief Auditor for AENOR in Software Engineering
and R&D&I. He is a professor at the Escuela Superior de Informática of the University of
Castilla-La Mancha and a part of the ALARCOS Research Group. His research interests
include software processes, products, and data quality.
M. Piattini received the MSc and PhD degrees in computer science from the Technical
University of Madrid (UPM). He is a Certiﬁed Information System Auditor for the ISACA
(Information System Audit and Control Association). He is a full professor at the Escuela
Superior de Informática of the University of Castilla-La Mancha. He leads the ALARCOS
research group, and his research interests are software engineering and information system
quality.
