Association for Information Systems
AIS Electronic Library (AISeL)
AMCIS 2011 Proceedings - All Submissions



8-7-2011

Strategic Business Requirements for Master Data
Management Systems
Boris Otto
University of St. Gallen, boris.otto@tu-dortmund.de

Martin H. Ofner
University of St. Gallen, martin.ofner@unisg.ch




Follow this and additional works at: http://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2011_submissions

Recommended Citation
Otto, Boris and Ofner, Martin H., "Strategic Business Requirements for Master Data Management Systems" (2011). AMCIS 2011
Proceedings - All Submissions. 108.
http://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2011_submissions/108


This material is brought to you by AIS Electronic Library (AISeL). It has been accepted for inclusion in AMCIS 2011 Proceedings - All Submissions by
an authorized administrator of AIS Electronic Library (AISeL). For more information, please contact elibrary@aisnet.org.
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



                         Strategic Business Requirements for
                          Master Data Management Systems

                       Boris Otto                                                         Martin Ofner
                 University of St. Gallen                                             University of St. Gallen
                  Boris.Otto@unisg.ch                                                 Martin.Ofner@unisg.ch

ABSTRACT
Master Data Management (MDM) is of increasing importance because it is seen as a promising approach in companies to
respond to a number of strategic business requirements, such as complying with an increasing number of regulations,
supporting internal and external business process integration, and establishing a “360-degree-view on the customer”. As a
result, software vendors such as IBM, Oracle, SAP, and TIBCO are offering MDM application systems. However, the user
community feels a significant mismatch between their own strategic requirements and the functionality currently offered by
the software products. As the Information Systems (IS) research community has remained silent so far regarding this research
problem, the research presented in this paper makes intensive use of knowledge from the practitioners’ community in order to
design a framework for strategic business requirements to be met by MDM systems. As an outcome of a design-oriented
research process, the framework is an artifact which advances the scientific body of knowledge while at the same time
providing benefit for practitioners. The framework includes seven design principles which are translated into 23
requirements. The requirements form a baseline for internal and external communication in companies and for the design of
concrete MDM systems.
Keywords
Master data management, Business requirements framework, Design research, Researcher-practitioner collaboration.
INTRODUCTION
Motivation and Problem Statement
MDM is a topic of increasing prominence both in the practitioners’ and in the research community. Reasons for that are an
increasing number of regulatory and legal provisions companies need to comply with, the need to have a single source of
truth for company-wide reporting (McCann 2010; Yen 2004), and the demand for having a 360°-view on the customer (Leser
and Naumann 2007; Pula, Stone and Foss 2003).
As a response to that, software vendors have started to offer MDM application systems (in the following referred to as
“MDM systems”). Examples are IBM’s InfoSphere Master data Management Server (IBM 2011), Oracle Master Data
Management (Oracle 2010), SAP NetWeaver Master Data Management (SAP 2011), and TIBCO’s Collaborative
Information Manager (TIBCO 2008). Despite differences with regard to their architectures and to their development history,
they offer similar functionality at their core. Basic functionality comprises import, conversion, and export of master data, data
storage and distribution, data quality management (such as duplicate checks), search algorithms, and general workflow
support for data management activities such as data creation, data update, etc. However, compared to Enterprise Resource
Planning (ERP) systems, dedicated MDM systems as the ones mentioned above represent a relatively new class of
application systems. As a consequence, the user community is characterized by uncertainty and lack of expertise with regard
to the functionality MDM software offers. Exemplary questions discussed at Gartner’s 2008 MDM are (Friedman 2009):
 “What is the proper sequence of activities in support of MDM? Must we have solid data integration and data quality
  practices and architectures in place before dealing with MDM?”
 “Most of our current data integration requirements are batch-oriented in nature, as we work to physically consolidate silos
  of master data. What types of packaged data integration tools will be most relevant for our purposes?”
 “Has market consolidation already reached the point where the advantages of single-vendor stacks for MDM outweigh the
  advantages of a best-of-breed strategy?”
On the other side, user companies have a clear understanding of their business requirements and their expectations regarding
MDM software. And they feel misunderstood when talking to MDM software vendors  or, as a leading information




Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                 1
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



technology (IT) architect at Novartis Pharma put it in a joint workshop with the authors of this paper on February 28th, 2009,
in Basel, Switzerland:
“We are flooded by invitations from MDM software vendors to sit together and let them present their solutions, which are
always supposed to be the solution to all our problems. When we meet, it’s always the same: They present something we
aren’t looking for. Then we tell them our understanding of the world and what our real requirements are  what in return they
do not want or cannot share. And in the end, everybody goes his own way, highly frustrated because they couldn’t sell their
product, we didn’t get an answer to our problems, and both of us spent time in vain.”
Apparently, there is a mismatch between the expectations in the practitioners’ community regarding the functionality of
MDM systems and the offering by software vendors, despite the existence of recommendations from consultancies on MDM
system functionality, such as Gartner’s magic quadrants (Radcliffe 2010; White 2010). And the issue has not been taken up
so far by the Information Systems (IS) research community, which remains silent when it comes to investigating on current
and future functionality of MDM systems. Only few contributions are available. Berson and Dubov (2007, p. 350-363), for
example, provide an overview of selected MDM systems. And Kokemüller (2009) provides a market survey directed at the
German-speaking community. Neither the practitioners’ nor the scientific community, however, are addressing the issue of
strategic business requirements for MDM systems. A general direction is missing which guides the further development of
MDM systems, their use in companies, and the collaboration between users and vendors.
Research Question and Contribution
The paper addresses a current gap in the IS community as it aims at finding answers to two research questions:
 What are strategic business requirements to be met by MDM systems?
 How can these requirements be framed to support communication between user companies and software vendors?
Since the topic is of relevance and interest both to the practitioners’ and the scientific community, the work presented in this
paper follows a design-oriented research approach. Design Science Research (DSR) aims at delivering research artifacts
which advance the scientific body of knowledge and  at the same time  benefit practitioners (Hevner, March, Park and
Ram 2004; March and Smith 1995). The research presented in this paper delivers a framework for strategic business
requirements for MDM systems. Being an abstraction of an information system that can be used to develop concrete
instantiations, the framework represents the artifact class of “models” according to March and Smith (1995).
The paper makes a contribution both to the scientific and the practitioners’ community. Through explication of the research
process and the documentation of the framework itself the paper advances the scientific body of knowledge, as it forms the
baseline for future research (for example, on the validation of the research process, or on the extension and adaptation of the
framework as a response to changing requirements). At the same time, practitioners benefit from the framework because they
can use it as a “blueprint” in the development of their individual, strategic planning, and as a reference in their
communication with peers and vendors.
THEORETICAL BACKGROUND
Master Data Management (MDM)
Master data specifies the essential business entities a company’s business activities are based on. Such entities are, for
example, business partners (customers, suppliers), products, or employees (Smith and McKeen 2008). Basically, master data
can be differentiated by three concepts: master data class, master data attribute, and master data object (Loshin 2008). A
master data object represents a concrete business object (an automobile manufactured in a certain plant at a certain point in
time, for example), and it specifies selected characteristics of this business object (color, features, or price, for example) by
means of attributes. Attributes selected for representation of a specific class of business objects (customers or products, for
example) constitute a master data class (which usually is specified by a data model). From the perspective of data modeling, a
master data object is an instance of a master data class, which is created by assigning data values (a sequence of numbers, for
example) to a master data attribute ( a phone number of a customer, for example).
MDM comprises all activities for creating, modifying or deleting a master data class, a master data attribute, or a master data
object (Smith et al. 2008), i.e. the modeling, provision, quality management, maintenance, and archiving of master data. All
these activities aim at providing master data of good quality (i.e. master data that is complete, accurate, timely, and well-
structured) for being used in business processes (Karel 2006; Loshin 2008).
Both researchers and practitioners agree that MDM is about establishing a business function rather than implementing a
technology. Hence, MDM has implications on a strategic, organizational and information systems level of a company (Otto



Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                 2
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



and Reichert 2010). Strategic and organizational questions are closely related to Data Governance (Loshin 2008; Sarsfield
2009) and establishment of roles for planning, designing and overseeing MDM activities. Typical roles are, for example, data
owner and data steward for master data (Khatri and Brown 2010; Power 2008; Swanton 2005; Weber, Otto and Österle
2009). However, software functionality remains the “necessary condition” for successful MDM, as master data  like data in
general  is maintained in software systems.
MDM Systems
Studies on MDM systems mainly focus on three aspects, namely usage scenarios, architecture types, and the vendor market
for MDM systems. Regarding (1) usage scenarios, a typical distinction is made between analytical and operational MDM
(Dreibelbis, Hechler, Milman, Oberhofer, van Run and Wolfson 2008; Loshin 2008). Analytical MDM refers to the use of
MDM systems to establish a “single version of the truth” or a “golden record” by extracting master data from source systems
(i.e. from local ERP systems), transforming them, and finally loading them into a system which can then be used for
analytical purposes. In contrast, operational MDM refers to master data being distributed from a central system to local
systems which use the data to support business processes (or “operations” in general). Identification of usage scenarios is
deemed necessary in order to be able to determine an appropriate MDM system architecture.
Researchers and practitioners alike distinguish four different (2) architecture types for MDM systems (Dreibelbis et al. 2008;
Kokemüller 2009; Loser, Legner and Gizanis 2004; Loshin 2008; Otto and Schmidt 2010).
 A central system architecture consists of a dedicated MDM system, which consolidates master data from local systems and
  distributes authorized versions of the data back to these systems.
 A leading system architecture works similar to the central system architecture, but has no dedicated MDM system. Instead,
  other application systems (often ERP systems) store and provide authorized versions of certain master data classes (e.g.
  customer data, product data).
 A repository consists of a central system which – in contrast to the central system architecture – does not manage
  authorized versions of master data, but instead manages references and mappings from data in one local system to data in
  another.
 A peer-to-peer architecture assumes neither a central system nor central coordination of the data flows between different
  systems. Instead, it uses standards for definition, description, and exchange of master data. All connections between the
  different systems are established via a one-to-one relationship.
Both practitioners and researchers provide (3) overviews of the vendor market for MDM systems. Gartner, for example, has
come up with a “magic quadrant” for MDM systems for customer data (Radcliffe 2010) and product data (White 2010).
Berson and Lubov (2007) provide vendor profiles. And Kokemüller compares different solutions against a number of
evaluation criteria (Kokemüller 2009).
With regard to MDM system functionality, both researchers and practitioners have remained rather silent so far. Dreibelbis et
al. (2008) give an general functional overview from an Service-oriented Architecture (SOA) perspective, DAMA (2009, pp.
173-192) identifies MDM activities which can be assumed requirements for MDM functionality, and Otto and Hüner (2009)
in a working report describe their work toward a functional reference model for master data quality management. No
contribution can be found addressing strategic business requirements for MDM systems in particular.
RESEARCH PROCESS
The research process (see Figure 1) in this paper follows the Design Science Research Methodology (DSRM) as proposed by
Peffers et al. (2008). The result of the research process is a design artifact, namely the framework for strategic business
requirements for MDM systems. The research process consists of four phases. The Analysis phase includes the DSRM
activities “Identify Problem & Motivate” and “Define Objectives of a Solution”. The DSRM activities “Design and
Development” and “Demonstration” were aggregated in the Design & Demonstration phase. The last two phases, Evaluation
and Communication, are kept as proposed by DSRM.
The Analysis phase included two steps:
 In first step, expert interviews (cf. Meuser and Nagel 1994) with three managers working in the field of MDM at Novartis
  Pharma were used to identify the problem (see also quote in the “Introduction” section).
 The second step, namely the definition of the objectives of the framework, was inspired by the “Future Search Conference”
  technique (cf. Weisbord 1992). The technique supports collaboration of large heterogeneous groups aiming at innovating
  around a given problem or at formulating a shared vision of the future in a given context. The technique normally requires



Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                 3
Otto et al.                                                                                                         Strategic MDM Requirements



  setting up a “conference”, in which people from diverse settings work together in a series of tightly scheduled meetings (2
  to 4 days). The research presented in this paper focused on three particular steps of the technique and identified (1) changes
  in the past, (2) predicted changes in the future (up to five years from present), and (3) desired developments. In the process
  of applying the technique, the group of professionals from Novartis Pharma and the authors of this paper identified
  shortcomings in the past regarding MDM systems and developed “innovation profiles” (see Appendix A for two examples)
  which guided the design of the framework.



                                         ANALYSIS
                              ■ Expert interviews (02/28/09) to identify and describe problem
                              ■ “Future Search” activities (05/07 to 05/14/09) to define objectives of a solution



                                                               DESIGN & DEMONSTRATION
                                     ■ “Future Search” activities to identify design principles
                                     ■ Reference modeling for framework design
                                     ■ Focus groups (06/24, 09/29, and 12/02/09) to demonstrate
                                       objectives and design principles

                                                                                       EVALUATION
                                                             ■ “Offline” expert evaluation (via email, 11/30 to
                                                              12/18/09)
                                                             ■ Focus group evaluation (05/27/10)

                                             COMMUNICATION
                                                                 ■ Presentation to practitioners community
                                                                   (05/27/10)
                          Q1/09      Q2/09      Q3/09      Q4/09       Q1/10      Q2/10      Q3/10       Q4/10

                                                        Figure 1: Research Process
The Design & Demonstration phase consisted of three steps:
 In a first step, design principles were developed using the adaption of the Future Search Conference technique described
  above.
 In a second step reference modeling was applied to design the framework for strategic business requirements for MDM
  systems. A reference model is defined as the result of a design process performed by a modeler who specifies (at a certain
  point in time) general elements of a system so that it serves as a reference point in the design of an information system. A
  reference model represents a class of use cases and can be used for the development of company-specific models (Schütte
  1998, pp. 69-74). Fettke and Loos (2004) denote reference models as a “technique of practical utility”, which corresponds
  very well with the research gap and the practitioners’ demand mentioned above. Reference modeling represents the central
  design approach used in the Design & Demonstration phase.
 In a third step, focus groups were used to demonstrate preliminary versions of the framework and receive feedback on it
  from the practitioners’ community. Focus groups are a multilateral form of expert interviews which allow identification
  and assessment of the level of consensus within a peer group (cf. Morgan and Krueger 1993).
The Evaluation phase included two steps:
 In a first step, an offline, e-mail based expert survey among more than 80 experts from the MDM domain was conducted to
  evaluate the framework, mainly from a deployment perspective (to determine the framework’s usefulness) and from an
  engineering perspective (to determine the degree to which the framework meets the requirements mentioned above) (cf.
  Frank 2007). The participants of the expert survey were selected from the “CC CDQ Community”, an online community
  on MDM which the researchers run in the social network XING. XING addresses business professionals mainly from the
  German-speaking parts of Europe. All online community members who represented user companies were addressed by the
  survey. All of them hold managing roles related to MDM in large companies.
 A second evaluation step was carried out in another focus group. Input to the focus group on 05/27/10 was a version of the
  framework which already included the evaluation feedback from the offline survey mentioned above.



Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                            4
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



The Diffusion phases consist of two steps:
 In a first step, the results of the framework design were communicated to the practitioners’ community in mid-2010. This
  communication is available as a working report (Österle, Otto and Ofner 2010).
 The second step addresses the communication of results to the scientific community through the present paper.
Overall, the research process combines two expert interview workshops with representatives from Novartis Pharma, three
focus groups for validating objectives and overall design, an offline expert survey over a period of 18 days among 80
professionals, and two focus groups for artifact evaluation. The intensive collaboration with representatives from the
practitioners’ community was deemed necessary given the practical relevance of the topic and the ambition of the research to
work toward a reference model. To demonstrate their accordance with its message and content, 27 MDM professionals from
twenty organizations co-signed the report (see Appendix B).
The following section of the paper uses “vignettes” to explicate on decisions made during the design process. Following
Hevner et al. (2004), the research process was not a unidirectional sequence of design activities, but rather comprised
iterations of design, demonstration, and evaluation steps.
FRAMEWORK DESCRIPTION
Framework Overview
The meta-model of the framework for strategic business requirements for MDM systems consists of four components. Two
components relate to the business context and two to the framework itself (see Figure 2). The business context is formed by
the shortcomings of existing MDM systems on the one hand and strategic MDM use cases on the other. Representing the
business rationale, strategic MDM use cases are the starting point for companies to evaluate the use of MDM systems.
Shortcomings of current solutions prevent companies from meeting the requirements which can be derived from the strategic
use cases.


                                    Business Context


                                           Shortcomings of               Strategic MDM Use
                                           Current Solutions                   Cases




                                                          Design Principles




                                                             Long-Term
                                                              Business
                                                            Requirements
                                    Framework

                                                 Figure 2: Framework Meta-model
The framework itself consists of design principles derived from the innovation profiles. The design principles do not show
the level of detail required for a software realization project. Instead, they represent the strategic vision of what user
companies would expect from an MDM system. The design principles were then translated into a set of 23 requirements,
which are supposed to be taken up by software vendors. The need for connecting design principles to business requirements
was articulated by an MDM expert participating in the design and evaluation activities. The comment received via e-mail
reads:
“[In the current framework version] I am missing a link [between requirements] and use cases. How do the latter relate to the
requirements? Can’t they be linked […]?”




Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                 5
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



As both shortcomings and MDM use cases are not part of the framework itself, they are described in Appendices C and D.
The design principles and strategic business requirements are described in greater detail in the following section.
Design Principles for Future MDM Systems
During the design process seven design principles were identified (see Table 1). They describe fundamental ideas about the
practice of good MDM and are assumed to be the basis of any design strategy.
ID    Design Principle     Description
P1    Master Data as a     There is an analogy between quality issues in product manufacturing and quality issues in
      Product              information manufacturing. While product manufacturing can be viewed as a processing system
                           that acts on raw materials to produce physical products, information manufacturing can be viewed
                           as a processing system acting on raw data to produce information products (Wang 1998).
                           Organizations need to understand their customers’ (both internal and external) needs with regard to
                           master data. They must appoint a manager to oversee the production of high-quality master data,
                           and they must recognize that master data is not just a by-product but a high-quality product
                           characterized by clear product specifications. The production of master data consumes scarce
                           resources. In this sense, master data needs a price tag just like any other product.
P2    Market for           Sourcing strategies become more and more important for the MDM domain. Internal and external
      Master Data          data providers such as GS1 and D&B need to be identified, evaluated, and selected for the
                           manufacturing of high-quality master data products (cf. Otto and Ofner 2010).
P3    Subsidiarity         Subsidiarity is an organizing principle which says that matters should be handled by the smallest,
                           lowest or least centralized competent authority available. Applied to the MDM domain,
                           subsidiarity means that some rules and standards must strictly be adhered to (with regard to
                           compliance issues, for example), while other rules or standards are just recommendations
                           individuals acting on a local level may follow. Only in case the responsible unit is not able to
                           handle the matter on its own, or if company-wide interests are touched, responsibility for such
                           master data must be assigned to an upper or central level, respectively (cf. Loshin 2008).
P4    Context              Depending on the lifecycle of master data, the set of mandatory properties forming the nucleus may
      Awareness            vary (i.e. different material data lifecycle phases require a different set of mandatory data
                           properties) (cf. White 2008). Moreover, validity of certain properties depends on the business
                           context. For example, the nucleus for product master data contains several properties with a
                           different validity context at the same time, e.g. the current price (for ordering), the planned price (if
                           not yet released), price rebates (to inform the sales force upfront), and the old price (required for
                           potential reimbursements). In other words, certain properties are context-depending.
P5    “The Nucleus”        The “nucleus” describes the common denominator of mandatory properties of a master data class
                           (e.g. material). This set of properties is unique and binding throughout the entire company (van den
                           Hoven 2003). There might be cases in which the nucleus consists of a unique identifier only (e.g.
                           for reporting purposes). There might be other cases in which the nucleus is formed by a broader set
                           of properties.
P6    Process Quality      Master data quality needs to be ensured throughout the entire data lifecycle (create, read, update,
                           archive, and delete). The sources of master data products (“upstream visibility”), the consumers of
                           master data products (“downstream visibility”) (White and Radcliffe 2008), and the manufacturing
                           process of the master data product itself needs to be made explicit. Clear master data ownership
                           needs to be defined and managed (White 2008).
P7    Deep Integration     MDM technology requires sufficient interoperability to seamlessly integrate in existing
                           transactional or legacy systems. A high level of interoperability maximizes flexibility and
                           reusability of the technology. From today’s point of view, best integration of MDM technology in
                           any company or group of companies is achieved by using a company-wide data repository to
                           supply high-quality master data to any business function or IT system in the company.
                                        Table 1: Design Principles for Future MDM Systems




Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                  6
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



Strategic Business Requirements
In the Design & Demonstration phase of the project, the design principles were translated into requirements to be met by
MDM systems (see Table 2). The requirements are supposed to be connecting points for software vendors in order to be able
to respond to the needs of user companies. In total, 23 requirements were identified.
ID            Requirement                                                   Supported Design       Shortcomings addressed
                                                                              Principle(s)
R1            Support of Master Data Product Descriptions                           P1             Business Semantics
                                                                                                   Management

R2            Sourcing of Master Data Products                                      P2             Master Data Service Approach,
                                                                                                   Predefined Content

R3            Integration of External Master Data Sources                           P2             Master Data Service Approach,
                                                                                                   Predefined Content
R4            Quality Management of Master Data Products and                        P6             Integrated MDM and DQM
              Services
R5            Audit Management of Master Data Products and Services                 P6             Regulatory Compliance

R6            Management of Access Rights According to Data                         P3             Regulatory Compliance
              Governance Roles
R7            Escalation Management                                                 P3             Distinction between Global and
                                                                                                   Local

R8            Support of Usage Monitoring of Master Data Products                   P6             Downstream Visibility

R9            Maintenance of Context-Aware Master Data                              P4             Master Data Service Approach

R10           Gauging of Master Data Product Consumption                            P6             Downstream Visibility

R11           Requirements Engineering for Master Data Products                     P1             Business Semantics

R12           Design and Maintenance of Global/Local Master Data                    P6             Distinction between Global and
              Management Processes                                                                 Local

R13           Internal Customer Support                                             P1             Master Data Service Approach

R14           Management of Business Rules for Data Standards                       P6             Business Rules Management
R15           Support of an End-to-End Master Data Product Lifecycle                P4             Downstream Visibility

R16           Support of Master Data Provenance Tracing                             P6             Downstream Visibility

R17           Management of Data Standards                                          P5             Business Rule Management

R18           Enforcement of Data Standards                                         P5             Regulatory Compliance

R19           Schema Matching and Mapping Using Heuristics                          P5             “On-the-fly“ Matching and
                                                                                                   Mapping

R20           Delivery of Predefined Content                                        P5             Predefined Content

R21           Design, Maintenance, and Integration of Global/Local                  P5             Distinction between Global and
              Master Data Models                                                                   Local

R22           Subscription to Master Data Products or Properties                    P7             Downstream Visibility

R23           Support of Interoperability Standards.                                P7             Stovepipe Approach
                                     Table 2: Strategic Business Requirements for MDM Systems




Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                  7
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



Feedback in the Design Process
27 experts from twenty companies participated in the design and evaluation activities by providing their feedback on
preliminary versions of the framework. The feedback was  as one can imagine  highly heterogeneous, ranging from simple
supportive/disagreeing statements to orthographic and minor comments to major change requests.
An example of a minor change request is the following feedback received via e-mail with regard to R2:
“Data, especially master data, not only need data values but data classification and data transfer rules too, in order to be a
valid ‘source’.”
An example of a major contribution is the following feedback received via e-mail with regard to R19:
“Matching and Mapping might be different, matching more content related, e.g. duplication check, mapping is schema
related. […] Would suggest to make two points. Matching and Mapping. […] Shortcoming for matching is that tools ‘can do’
but do not ‘have’, meaning they are shipped with no content/no sophisticated predefined rules for matching. I’d expect
instead of an empty rule set an elaborate set of predefined rules incl. referencing external validation services. These rules can
be activated/deactivated/adjusted as required but do not need to be defined from scratch.”
The framework (without the explication of the research process) is available as a working report (Österle et al. 2010) and was
distributed within the practitioners’ community. In doing so, the research process follows recommendations for DSR to make
research results available both to researchers and to practitioners (Hevner et al. 2004; Peffers et al. 2008).
FRAMEWORK EVALUATION
The framework for strategic business requirements for MDM systems is a reference model. Therefore, artifact evaluation
should follow guidelines for evaluation of reference models. Frank (2007) proposes a multidimensional evaluation approach,
which the paper at hand follows. He distinguishes four relevant dimensions, namely the (1) economic dimension, (2) the
deployment dimension, (3) the engineering dimension, and (4) the epistemological dimension. Table 3 summarizes the
evaluation of the framework.
Dimension                Detailed Criteria                 Assessment
Economic                 Cost caused by the reference      No statement can be made so far regarding the business benefits
                         model, for training, model        related to the framework’s use. However, all focus groups evaluated
                         acquisition, integration,         the potential of the framework positive and expected improvement
                         adaptation, maintenance etc.;     regarding internal and external communication.
                         business benefits resulting
                         from the reference model;
                         improved communication
                         and knowledge
                         management.
Deployment               Appropriateness,                  Both the offline survey and the focus group on 05/27/2010, which
                         comprehensibility, “attitude”     included more than 50 participants (among which were Dataflux,
                         (e.g. regarding the “not-         IBM, Oracle, SAP, TIBCO, and Trillium as representatives from the
                         invented-here syndrome”).         software vendor community), confirmed the appropriateness and
                                                           usefulness of the approach. Asked by the moderator (one of the
                                                           authors of this paper) whether the initiative should be continued or
                                                           not, the focus group unanimously voted for continuation.
Engineering              Clarity of definitions,           At present, the written formulation of the framework is still relatively
                         explanations, formalization       informal in style. This is a result of the intensive input from
                         of language, technical            practitioners, who in general prefer content to formalism. As a
                         soundness etc.                    consequence, design principles are not free of overlapping and the
                                                           requirements are “unbalanced” to a certain extent.
                                                           Apart from that, the representatives from the software vendors
                                                           participating in the focus group on 05/27/2010 articulated a demand
                                                           for more specific requirements, as they considered the present
                                                           version of the framework not ready to be handed to development.
                                                           They recommended “scenarios” for proof-of-concepts.




Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                  8
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



Dimension                Detailed Criteria                 Assessment
Epistemological          Theoretical foundation,           The scientific body of knowledge regarding MDM is still in its
                         critical distance, scientific     infancy. As a result, the paper makes intensive use of knowledge
                         progress.                         from the practitioners’ community. The research process follows
                                                           accepted guidelines and combines a variety of research methods.
                                                  Table 3: Framework Evaluation
CONCLUSIONS
The paper reports on the design of an IS research artifact, namely a framework for strategic business requirements to be met
by MDM systems. The framework is a response to an acute need in the practitioners’ community and addresses a topic which
has not been investigated in depth by IS research so far. Due to the lack of scientific knowledge, the research presented in the
paper makes intensive use of expertise from practitioners who were involved in the research process by means of expert
interviews, an offline survey, and a series of focus groups.
Practitioners benefit from the framework because it facilitates internal and external communication and forms a reference for
strategic application systems planning for MDM. The paper adds to the scientific body of knowledge since it presents an
abstraction of an information system in a quite neglected area of IS research, and since it explicates the research process. This
explication allows for future research to validate the framework and to extend and adapt it in order to be able to reflect
changing business requirements and technologies.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This research is a result of the Competence Center Corporate Data Quality (CC CDQ) at the Institute of Information
Management at the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland. The CC CDQ is part of the research program Business Engineering
at the University of St. Gallen (BE HSG).
REFERENCES
1.   Berson, A. and Dubov, L. Master Data Management and Customer Data Integration for a Global Enterprise McGraw-
     Hill, New York, 2007.
2.   DAMA The DAMA Guide to the Data Management Body of Knowledge Technics Publications, Bradley Beach, New
     Jersey, 2009.
3.   Dreibelbis, A., Hechler, E., Milman, I., Oberhofer, M., van Run, P., and Wolfson, D. Enterprise Master Data
     Management: An SOA Approach to Managing Core Information Pearson Education, Boston, Massachusetts, 2008.
4.   Fettke, P. and Loos, P. "Referenzmodellierungsforschung", Wirtschaftsinformatik (46:5) 2004, pp 331-340.
5.   Frank, U. "Evaluation of Reference Models", in: Reference Modeling for Business Systems Analysis, P. Fettke and P.
     Loos (eds.), Idea Group, Hershey, Pennsylvania et al., 2007, pp. 118-139.
6.   Friedman, T. "Q&A: Common Questions on Data Integration and Data Quality From Gartner's MDM Summit", Gartner,
     Inc., Stamford.
7.   Hevner, A.R., March, S.T., Park, J., and Ram, S. "Design Science in Information System Research", MIS Quarterly
     (28:1) 2004, pp 75-105.
8.   IBM "InfoSphere Master Data Management Server", IBM Corporation, Armonk, USA, 2011.
9.   Karel, R. "Introducing Master Data Management", Forester Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
10. Khatri, V. and Brown, C.V. "Designing Data Governance", Communications of the ACM (53:1) 2010, pp 148-152.
11. Kokemüller, J. Stammdatenmanagementsysteme 2009 Fraunhofer-Verlag, Stuttgart, Germany, 2009.
12. Leser, U. and Naumann, F. Informationsintegration: Architekturen und Methoden zur Integration verteilter und
    heterogener Datenquellen dpunkt, Heidelberg, Germany, 2007.
13. Loser, C., Legner, C., and Gizanis, D. "Master Data Management for Collaborative Service Processes", International
    Conference on Service Systems and Service Management, Research Center for Contemporary Management, Tsinghua
    University, forthcoming, 2004.
14. Loshin, D. Master Data Management Morgan Kaufmann, Burlington, Massachusetts, 2008.




Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                 9
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



15. March, S.T. and Smith, G.F. "Design and natural science research on information technology", Decision Support Systems
    (15) 1995, pp 251-266.
16. McCann, D. "If you build it..." CFO (26:3) 2010, pp 29-31.
17. Meuser, M. and Nagel, U. "Expertenwissen und Experteninterview", in: Expertenwissen. Die institutionelle Kompetenz
    zur Konstruktion von Wirklichkeit, R. Hitzler, A. Honer and C. Maeder (eds.), Westdeutscher Verlag, Opladen, 1994, pp.
    180-192.
18. Morgan, D.L. and Krueger, R.A. "When to use Focus Groups and why?" in: Successful Focus Groups, D.L. Morgan
    (ed.), Sage, Newbury Park, California, 1993, pp. 3-19.
19. Oracle "Master Data Management: An Oracle White Paper", Oracle Corporation, Redwood Shores, CA.
20. Österle, H., Otto, B., and Ofner, M. "MDM 2015: Shaping the Future of Master Data Management", University of St.
    Gallen, Institute of Information Management, St. Gallen, Switzerland.
21. Otto, B. and Hüner, K. "Functional Reference Architecture for Corporate Master Data Management", BE HSG / CC
    CDQ / 21, Institute of Information Management, University of St. Gallen, St. Gallen, Switzerland.
22. Otto, B. and Ofner, M. "Towards a Process Reference Model for Information Supply Chain Management", in: 18th
    European Conference on Information Systems (ECIS 2010), Pretoria, 2010.
23. Otto, B. and Reichert, A. "Organizing Master Data Management: Findings from an Expert Survey", in: Proceedings of
    the 25th ACM Symposium on Applied Computing (SAC 2010), B.R. Bryant, H.M. Haddad and R.L. Wainwright (eds.),
    Sierre (Switzerland), 2010, pp. 106-110.
24. Otto, B. and Schmidt, A. "Enterprise Master Data Architecture: Design Decisions and Options", in: Proceedings of the
    15th International Conference on Information Quality (ICIQ-2010), Little Rock, USA, 2010.
25. Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M.A., and Chatterjee, S. "A Design Science Research Methodology for
    Information Systems Research", Journal of Management Information Systems (24:3) 2008, pp 45-77.
26. Power, D. "The Politics of Master Data Management & Data Governance", DM Review:March) 2008, pp 24-38.
27. Pula, E.N., Stone, M., and Foss, B. "Customer data management in practice: An insurance case study", Journal of
    Database Marketing (10:4) 2003, pp 327-341.
28. Radcliffe, J. "Magic Quadrant for Master Data Management of Customer Data", G00206031, Gartner, Inc., Stamford,
    USA.
29. SAP "Components & Tools of SAP NetWeaver: SAP NetWeaver Master Data Management", SAP AG, Walldorf, 2011.
30. Sarsfield The Data Governance Imperative: A Business Strategy for Corporate Data IT Governance Publishing,
    Cambridgeshire (UK), 2009.
31. Schütte, R. Grundsätze ordnungsmässiger Referenzmodellierung:                          Konstruktion      konfigurations-   und
    anpassungsorientierter Modelle Gabler, Wiesbaden, Germany, 1998.
32. Smith, H.A. and McKeen, J.D. "Developments in Practice XXX: Master Data Management: Salvation or Snake Oil?"
    Communications of the AIS (23:4) 2008, pp 63-72.
33. Swanton, B. "Master Data Management Organizations: A Balance of Control and Responsibility", AMR Research,
    Boston.
34. TIBCO "Managing Master Data with TIBCO Collaborative Information Manager: A Technical Overview", TIBCO
    Software Inc., Palo Alto, CA.
35. van den Hoven, J. "Data Architecture: Principles for Data", Information Systems Management (20:3) 2003, pp 93-96.
36. Wang, R. "A Product Perspective on Total Data Quality Management", Communications of the ACM (41:2) 1998, pp 58-
    65.
37. Weber, K., Otto, B., and Österle, H. "One Size Does Not Fit All – A Contingency Approach to Data Governance", ACM
    Journal of Data and Information Quality (1:1) 2009.
38. Weisbord, M. Discovering Common Ground: How Future Search Conferences Bring People Together to Achieve
    Breakthrough Innovation, Empowerment, Shared Vision, and Collaborative Action Berrett-Koehler, San Francisco,
    1992.
39. White, A. "Governance of Master Data Starts With the Master Data Life Cycle", Gartner, Inc., Stamford, CT, USA.



Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                10
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



40. White, A. "Magic Quadrant for Master Data Management of Product Data", G00205921, Gartner, Inc., Stamford, CT,
    USA.
41. White, A. and Radcliffe, J. "Mastering Master Data Management", G00157050, Gartner, Inc., Stamford, CT, USA.
42. Yen, B.K. "Pulling It All Together", Financial Executive (20:6) 2004, pp 60-62.



APPENDIX
Appendix A: Innovation Profile Examples
Table 4 shows two innovation profiles out of ten in total which were developed in the first phase of the research and which
guided the design activities.
ID                  2                                                         3
Short title         Master Data as a Service                                  Data Communities
Description          A model of Master Data deployment whereby a              Data Communities leverage the strength of a
                      (internal or external) provider licenses Master           growing community of the best data operations in
                      Data to customers for use as a service on                 the world.
                      demand.                                                  Participants benefit from multiple efforts each of
                                                                                the member institution has put into their global
                                                                                business entity database.
Related MDM          Centralized Master Data can improve global               High-quality and up-to-date data leads to reduced
business              quality of information.                                   settlement risk, improved regulatory compliance.
potential            Standardized metadata is hashed out for Master
                      Data Sets that are shared. For instance, a zip code
                      is a zip code is a zip code - no matter where in
                      the world you live.
Barriers and         Costly for ensuring 24x7 uptime in a global              Concerns regarding potential loss of control over
risks                 environment                                               “own” data must be overcome. Fit of externally
                     The question of "Who owns the Master Data"                provided data to requirements of data consumers
                      comes in to play                                          must be ensured.

                     Security issues
                     Requires your business to have metadata already
                      defined for the master data sets
Basic                Web services stack                                       Distributed data architectures, for example
technologies         Service-oriented architectures                            Linked Data.
used
                                               Table 4: Innovation Profile Examples
Appendix B: Co-Signers of the Framework Working Report
The working report which describes the framework in a format appropriate for the practitioners’ community was co-signed
by 27 MDM professionals from the following companies: Bayer CropScience AG, Beiersdorf AG, Clariant Business
Services GmbH, Corning Cable Systems GmbH & Co. KG, Deutsche Telekom AG, DB Netz AG, eCl@ss e.V., Fraunhofer
IAO, Geberit International AG, Henkel AG & Co. KG, Nestlé SA, Novartis Pharma AG, Philips Lighting B.V., Robert
Bosch GmbH, Roche Diagnostics GmbH, RWE Service GmbH, Sick AG, Siemens Enterprise Communications GmbH & Co.
KG, Syngenta Crop Protection AG, TNT Express GmbH, ZF Friedrichshafen AG.
Appendix C: Strategic MDM Use Cases
The analysis phase resulted also in a number of strategic MDM use cases which pose requirements for MDM systems. In the
first version of the framework document (before November 2009), the following use cases had been identified: Risk
management and compliance, integrated customer management, business process integration and harmonization, reporting,


Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                11
Otto et al.                                                                                              Strategic MDM Requirements



IT consolidation. Later on, in the process of the offline expert survey, the following use cases were added as a result of the
feedback analysis: demand planning, cross-project management, vendor management, product lifecycle management.
Appendix D: Shortcomings of Current MDM Systems
The user companies identified the following shortcomings: No downstream visibility of data, poor business semantics
management, MDM and data quality management (DQM) treated as two separate “islands”, “stovepipe” approach for MDM
architectures, no consistent master data service approach, no predefined content, no “on-the-fly” mapping and matching, poor
support of centralized management of decentralized/federated datasets, no integrated business rules management, poor
support of distinction between “global” and “local” data, poor support of compliance issues, insufficient transition
management (from one MDM architecture to another).




Proceedings of the Seventeenth Americas Conference on Information Systems, Detroit, Michigan August 4th-7th 2011                12
