

"Strategic Business Requirements for Master Data Management Systems" by Boris Otto and Martin H. Ofner

  

  

      
Home

 Search

Browse All Content

My Account

About

 Digital Commons Network™

  

	

		Skip to main content

					

				

					

					

						

			

			

				

eLibrary Home
AIS Home
eLibrary Login
Join AIS

			

		

			

				

  

                

< Previous

        

                

Next >

        

 

    

	

		Home

	

	

	

	

	

	 > 

		AMCIS2011_SUBMISSIONS

	

	

	
	 > 

		108

	

	

	

	

    

	

		

	

	

	

 

AMCIS 2011 Proceedings - All Submissions

 

Strategic Business Requirements for Master Data Management Systems

Authors

Boris Otto, University of St. GallenFollow

Martin H. Ofner, University of St. GallenFollow

Track

Enterprise Systems and Organizational Issues in IS

Abstract

Master Data Management (MDM) is of increasing importance because it is seen as a promising approach in companies torespond to a number of strategic business requirements, such as complying with an increasing number of regulations,supporting internal and external business process integration, and establishing a “360-degree-view on the customer”. As aresult, software vendors such as IBM, Oracle, SAP, and TIBCO are offering MDM application systems. However, the usercommunity feels a significant mismatch between their own strategic requirements and the functionality currently offered bythe software products. As the Information Systems (IS) research community has remained silent so far regarding this researchproblem, the research presented in this paper makes intensive use of knowledge from the practitioners’ community in order todesign a framework for strategic business requirements to be met by MDM systems. As an outcome of a design-orientedresearch process, the framework is an artifact which advances the scientific body of knowledge while at the same timeproviding benefit for practitioners. The framework includes seven design principles which are translated into 23requirements. The requirements form a baseline for internal and external communication in companies and for the design ofconcrete MDM systems.

Recommended Citation

    Otto, Boris and Ofner, Martin H., "Strategic Business Requirements for Master Data Management Systems" (2011). AMCIS 2011 Proceedings - All Submissions.  108.

    

        https://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2011_submissions/108

    

	

	

    

	

		

	

	

	

	

       

        Download

	

    
 DOWNLOADS

Since June 24, 2011

    

        

	

	

	

Share

	

    	

		

    	

	

	

COinS

 

	
 

 

	

	

	

Search

	

	
		Enter search terms:

		

			

			 

		

		Select context to search:

		

			

					

						in this series

					

					in this repository
					across all repositories

			

	

		
			Advanced Search

	

	

			
				Notify me via email or RSS

		

	

	

Links

			

				Join AIS

			

			

			AMCIS 2011 Proceedings - All Submissions Website

		

Browse

All Content

Authors

JAIS

CAIS

TRR

THCI

MISQE

PAJAIS

ITD

Author Corner

	

			
				eLibrary FAQ

		

		

	

	

	

	

	

		

	
 

	

	

	Elsevier - Digital Commons

	

		Home | 
		About | 
		FAQ | 
		My Account | 
		Accessibility Statement

	

	

		Privacy

		Copyright	

	

