                                        Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review

                                        ABEL GOEDEGEBUURE, INDIKA KUMARA, STEFAN DRIESSEN, and WILLEM-JAN VAN DEN HEUVEL, Tilburg
                                        University, Netherlands
                                        GEERT MONSIEUR and DAMIAN ANDREW TAMBURRI, Eindhoven University of Technology,
                                        Netherlands
                                        DARIO DI NUCCI, University of Salerno, Italy




arXiv:2304.01062v3 [cs.SE] 7 Aug 2024
                                        Data mesh is an emerging domain-driven decentralized data architecture that aims to minimize or avoid operational bottlenecks associated
                                        with centralized, monolithic data architectures in enterprises. The topic has picked the practitioners’ interest, and there is considerable
                                        gray literature on it. At the same time, we observe a lack of academic attempts at defining and building upon the concept. Hence, in this
                                        article, we aim to start from the foundations and characterize the data mesh architecture regarding its design principles, architectural
                                        components, capabilities, and organizational roles. We systematically collected, analyzed, and synthesized 114 industrial gray literature
                                        articles. The review provides insights into practitioners’ perspectives on the four key principles of data mesh: data as a product, domain
                                        ownership of data, self-serve data platform, and federated computational governance. Moreover, due to the comparability of data mesh
                                        and SOA (service-oriented architecture), we mapped the findings from the gray literature into the reference architectures from the SOA
                                        academic literature to create the reference architectures for describing three key dimensions of data mesh: organization of capabilities
                                        and roles, development, and runtime. Finally, we discuss open research issues in data mesh, partially based on the findings from the gray
                                        literature.

                                        ACM Reference Format:
                                        Abel Goedegebuure, Indika Kumara, Stefan Driessen, Willem-Jan van den Heuvel, Geert Monsieur, Damian Andrew Tamburri,
                                        and Dario Di Nucci. 2024. Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review. 1, 1 (August 2024), 35 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nn
                                        nnnnn.nnnnnnn


                                        1    Introduction
                                        The world is living in the golden age of data. IDC (International Data Corporation) predicts that by 2025, the amount
                                        of digital data generated by enterprises and individuals will grow 61% to 175 zettabytes [137]. While the advances in
                                        the analytic data landscape can enable organizations to turn their ever-growing raw data into value, the difficulties in the
                                        integration, management, and governance of data at scale hamper the success of data analytic projects of organizations [69,
                                        129]. In the current practices of centralized data management, domain teams rely on a central data management team to
                                        collect, process, and manage domain data. This central team is becoming the bottleneck for unlocking the value from
                                        domain data. There is a need to shift the domain data’s responsibility from the central team to domain teams [40].
                                            A data mesh is emerging as a novel decentralized approach for managing data at scale by applying domain-oriented,
                                        self-serve design and product thinking [40]. Zhamak Dehghani first defined the term data mesh in 2019 [37]. Figure 1
                                        shows the search index for “Data Mesh" on Google Trends from January 2019 to December 2023 (monthly average). The
                                        Authors’ addresses: Abel Goedegebuure, a.a.goedegebuure@tilburguniversity.edu; Indika Kumara, i.p.k.weerasinghadewage@tilburguniversity.edu;
                                        Stefan Driessen, s.w.driessen@tilburguniversity.edu; Willem-Jan van den Heuvel, w.j.a.m.vdnHeuvel@tilburguniversity.edu, Tilburg University,
                                        Warandelaan 2, Tilburg, North Brabant, Netherlands, 5037 AB; Geert Monsieur, g.monsieur@tue.nl; Damian Andrew Tamburri, d.a.tamburri@tue.nl,
                                        Eindhoven University of Technology, Groene Loper 3, Eindhoven, North Brabant, Netherlands, 5612 AZ; Dario Di Nucci, ddinucci@unisa.it, University of
                                        Salerno, Via Giovanni Paolo II, 132, Fisciano SA, Salerno, Italy, 84084.

                                        2024. Manuscript submitted to ACM


                                        Manuscript submitted to ACM                                                                                                                       1




                                              © Owner/Author 2024. This is the author’s version of the work. It is posted here for your personal use. Not for redistribution.
2                                                                                                    Abel and Indika, et al.


interest in data mesh grew gradually until early 2022. Then, there was a sharp increase, followed by a generally sustained
popularity. Despite its popularity, little academic literature exists on the data mesh topic. However, as organizations
increasingly investigate data mesh, we saw an opportunity to systematically review the gray literature to better characterize
the concept and drive a research agenda.




                                      Fig. 1. Google trends for the term “Data Mesh".


    Zhamak [40] defines the architecture of data mesh based on four principles: data as a product, domain ownership of
data, self-serve data platform, and federated computational governance. The data assets in an organization are offered as
products that enable consumers to efficiently and autonomously discover and use domain data. Domain teams closest to the
origin of data create and manage data products. A mesh of data products emerges when domains consume data products
from each other. To ensure the data products are interoperable and compliant with internal and external regulations
and policies, a federated governance team is responsible for defining and enforcing product interoperability standards
and compliance policies across the data mesh. Finally, a self-serve data platform supports the domains by offering
infrastructure and platform services necessary to build, maintain, and manage data products.
    To a certain extent, we observed a strong analogy between data mesh and service-oriented architecture (SOA),
particularly with domain-driven microservices [37, 40, 71]. SOA represents a software application as a set of loosely
coupled collaborating services [118]. It promotes the idea of building applications by composing existing applications
from multiple parties through discovering and invoking network-available services. The microservices architecture is a
variant of SOA. The success of the domain-oriented design and microservices architecture was an inspiration for inventing
the data mesh architecture [37, 40, 41]. Data products are often exposed as services and consumed through APIs. A data
mesh relates and connects data products, which is analogous to a service mesh. The product owners can publish their data
products, and consumers can discover and interconnect the desired products to perform cross-domain data analysis and
build new value-added data products, which is analogous to service composition.
    In this paper, we report a Systematic Gray Literature Review (SGLR) that aims to identify and review the gray literature
on the data mesh to synthesize the practitioners’ understanding of the data mesh and identify research challenges for
academia. We selected and analyzed 114 gray literature articles. Our findings include the practitioners’ characterization of
four principles of a data mesh, common architectural components in a data mesh, and potential benefits and drawbacks of
a data mesh. Moreover, the similarities between SOA and data mesh motivated us to adopt the well-established reference
architectures from SOA to organize the findings from our SGLR into three reference architectures. Our mapping of data
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                              3


mesh to SOA can also help the research community understand research challenges in data mesh and the potential use of
SOA research results to address those challenges.
    The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Section 2 describes our systematic literature review methodology.
Based on the findings of the gray literature, Section 3 explores the data mesh and its four principles and Section 4
presents its potential benefits and drawbacks. Section 5 describes our three reference architectures for the data mesh,
while Section 6 lists potential research challenges. Section 7 summarizes the academic research studies on data mesh
and the literature review studies relevant to our survey. Finally, we discuss the threats to the validity of our research in
Section 8 and conclude the paper in Section 9.


2    Methodology
Due to the novelty of the data mesh paradigm, little academic literature is available on the topic. At the same time, since
the data mesh concept has its roots in the industry as opposed to academics [37, 41], gray literature about the topic, such
as blog posts and white papers, is widely available. Since the quality of structured literature reviews (SLRs) depends
greatly on the availability of enough source material, a gray literature review (GLR) was conducted to investigate the
state-of-the-art for the data mesh. In this work, we follow the guidelines provided by Garousi et. al. [56], who adapted
the SLR guidelines of Kitchenham and Charters [75] specifically for GLRs. Following these methodologies, our GLR is
organized into three stages: a planning and design phase, an execution phase, and a reporting phase. A high-level overview
of these phases and their steps are depicted in Figure 2.




                                     Fig. 2. Systematic gray literature review process.




                                                                                                   Manuscript submitted to ACM
4                                                                                                        Abel and Indika, et al.


2.1     Planning and Design of the Gray Literature Review
Our main goals were to provide a unified definition of the data mesh concept, create reference architectures for the data
mesh, and identify research challenges. We formulated four research questions to achieve these goals:
      RQ1. What is a data mesh? A data mesh embodies four design principles [37, 40, 41]: data as a product, domain-
        driven data ownership, self-serve data platform, and federated computational governance. Practitioners may have
        different perspectives on these principles and experiences applying them. Hence, RQ1 aims to understand and
        characterize the four principles of data mesh from a practitioner’s standpoint.
      RQ2. Why is the data mesh needed? Specifically, what are the benefits and concerns of adopting it, and when
        should it be used? A data mesh has advantages and disadvantages and is not a one-size-fits-all approach for data
        management. Thus, RQ2 aims to understand the data management issues that data mesh tries to address and the
        potential benefits, use cases, implementation challenges, and drawbacks of data mesh.
      RQ3. How should an organization build data mesh? Some organizations have started their data mesh journey and
        report their experience, including development and operation guidelines, options, and examples. Hence, RQ3 aims
        to analyze the relevant gray articles to create a set of reference architectures to guide organizations in making
        better design choices when embarking on their data mesh journey. Furthermore, due to the novelty of the data
        mesh architectures, we aim to build reference architectures by mapping findings from the gray literature into the
        architectures used in comparable domains.
      RQ4. What are the research challenges concerning data mesh? Practitioners report critical challenges in the gray
        articles; hence, RQ4 aims to identify research challenges concerning data mesh based on practitioners’ challenges.




Fig. 3. The search and selection process. Steps are shown sequentially, and each step reduces the number of candidate
 sources until the final selection. After the final exclusion step, an inter-rater reliability test—featuring the well-established
Cohen Kappa coefficient calculation—was performed with 𝜅 = 0.79 to ensure that reviewer bias was not inappropriately high.


    Following the protocols by Kitchenham et. al. [75], we defined several search strings to identify relevant gray literature
sources. Then, each string was applied to our selected search engine (Google), after which our pre-established inclusion
and exclusion criteria were used to refine the results as shown in Figure 3.
    As is common practice in GLRs, our search string selection process was based on trial queries with different search
strings, which can indicate the usefulness of that search string [153]. We started with the keywords used in our research
questions. We kept improving the combination until we settled on the following query, which yielded promising results
for answering our research questions.
      Query: Data Mesh (Requirements | Benefits | Drawbacks | Concerns | Advantages | Disadvantages | Challenges | Com-
        ponents | Architecture | Design)
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                               5


  The query was then executed in the Google search engine on September 1𝑠𝑡 2021, and all search results were checked
against our inclusion and exclusion criteria. Due to the relative novelty of data mesh, information and sources at that time
were mostly limited to the generic data mesh principles. Therefore, the GLR was extended to include data sources about
the architectural design of data mesh until May 1𝑠𝑡 2022. This step resulted in 155 data sources from 2019 until 2022.
  To effectively process our sources in line with grounded theory, we limited our gray literature source selection to
text-based sources, such as reports, blog posts, white papers, official documentation from vendors, presentations, and
transcriptions of keynotes and webinars. Additionally, duplicate and non-English sources were eliminated to remove bias
and ensure the text was legible to the authors.
  To guarantee the relevance and quality of the sources used for this GLR, we applied several quality criteria inspired
by previous gray literature reviews [21, 56, 79]. As a first step, we eliminated any work that does not explicitly contain
either a theoretical discussion or a practical implementation of a data mesh that can aid us in answering our proposed
research questions. Examples of the former include a formal definition, an example architecture, or an overview of the
benefits and challenges of data mesh implementation. Examples of the latter include discussing tools or an instantiation of
(components of) a data mesh.
  Next, works that consist primarily of subjective statements that promote the author’s opinion, as opposed to factual
information, were excluded. Furthermore, we checked whether the publishing organization is respected in information
technology and whether the author is a reputable individual, i.e., they are associated with a reputable organization, have
reputable expertise, or have published other articles in the field of data management.
  Finally, two authors checked each article against the content and quality criteria to eliminate potential selection bias.
A mutual agreement was required for final inclusion in the data set, and disagreements were discussed between the
authors. The resulting inter-rater reliability assessment [139] yielded a Cohen Kappa of 0.79, which indicates substantial
agreement between the authors.
  The final selection consists of 114. Figure 4a shows the distribution of the selected sources. A full overview of each
source can be found in our online appendix (see Section 2.3).




     (a) The publication date of the selected sources.                  (b) Topics discussed in the analyzed studies.

                                                  Fig. 4. Source statistics.




                                                                                                    Manuscript submitted to ACM
6                                                                                                      Abel and Indika, et al.


2.2     Conducting and Reporting the Gray Literature Review
The second set of steps is related to the execution of the review in line with a qualitative analysis methodology. Structural
coding was used to get an initial overview of the topics, after which descriptive coding was used to summarize parts of the
topics. Structural coding was used to identify larger text segments on a broad topic. Descriptive coding was then used to
go more in-depth on these topics by summarizing the basic topic into a word or short phrase [140]. We leveraged Atlas.ti1
for the coding process.
    Like [79], an initial set of 20 sources was randomly selected and analyzed to establish an initial set of codes. These
were discussed between the first three authors of the paper. The entire dataset was coded once consensus on the initial set
of codes was reached. The grouping of codes into topics and the identification of categories were established through
discussion by the first three authors of this paper.
    We first used the data extracted from the gray literature using the established codes to answer RQ1 and RQ2. Next,
to address RQ3, we created three reference architectures by mapping our findings to the reference architectures used in
service-oriented computing [80, 85, 116, 117]. The first three authors of the paper collaboratively created the reference
architectures over a set of meetings. The other authors validated such architectures. We addressed any discrepancies
through discussions. We followed a similar approach to answer RQ4. We identified the potential research challenges
by mapping the difficulties mentioned by the practitioners in the gray articles to the relevant research issues from the
service-oriented computing [117, 118, 174] and data management [5, 45, 69, 152].
    The results from the systematic gray literature are presented in the rest of this paper. We defined four main categories
as shown in Figure 4b. In the online appendix, we provide the details of each category, including topics, underlying
atomic codes, and the sources that address these codes.


2.3     Replication Package
We made the related data available online2 to enable further validation and replication of our study. It contains the full list
of sources, the qualitative analysis (i.e., codes, groupings, and analysis) performed with the Atlas.ti tool, and code tables.


3     RQ1. What is Data Mesh
In short, a data mesh is a domain-oriented decentralized architecture for managing (analytical) data at scale. It enables the
decomposition of an organization’s monolithic analytical data space into data domains aligned with business domains.
Such decomposition moves the responsibility of managing and providing high-quality data and valuable insights from the
conventional central data team into domain teams that intimately know the data.
    Zhamak [37, 40, 41] defines the data mesh concept using four principles: (i) data product thinking, (ii) domain
ownership of data, (iii) federated computational governance, (iv) and self-serve data platform. Based on the findings from
our gray literature, Sections 3.1 to 3.4 aim to study the practitioners’ perspective on these principles and how they expand
or implement the principles.


3.1     Principle 1: Data as a Product
This principle applies product thinking to analytical data, offering it as a valuable asset to potential data consumers.


1 https://atlasti.com/
2 https://github.com/IndikaKuma/DataMesh

Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                             7


   Elements of a Data Product. Zhamak [37, 40, 41] defines a data product as an architectural quantum (an independently
deployable, high-cohesive component encompassing all the structural elements required for its function [53]). A data
product is a composition of all its key elements: 1) data and metadata, 2) code for ingesting, processing, serving, and
governing data, and 3) infrastructure for building, deploying, and executing code and storing data and metadata. The
metadata of a data product may include information such as product owners, access endpoints, data models, access
policies, data quality metrics, and data lineage. A data product is a node in the data mesh and an autonomous entry that
receives or takes the input data from one or more sources, applies some computation/transformation on the received data,
and produces and serves the results expected by the consumers.
   While most gray literature generally agrees with Zhamak’s definition of a data product as an architectural quantum,
some sources [67, 108] consider a curated data set (without code and infrastructure) a data product. Several sources also
introduced the concept of a data contract [19, 71, 126, 155, 156, 177] to represent the interface of a data product. It can
include data access endpoints and the syntax, semantics, quality, and terms of use of the data offered by the data product.
The practitioners proposed implementing data contracts by storing the relevant metadata or defining them as API using
standards such as Open API 3 .
   Zhamak recommends using the infrastructure as code (IaC) approach to automate the provisioning of the infrastructure
of a data product [40]. The gray literature also highlighted the importance of IaC [4, 38, 87, 130, 177] and provided
several examples of data products that use IaC for deploying them [95, 108, 115, 126]. IaC employs the source code to
manage and provision infrastructure resources and deploy and configure applications, enabling the application of software
engineering tools and best practices [101].

   Types of Data Products. Zhamak [37, 40, 41] mentioned three types of data products: source-aligned, aggregates, and
consumer-aligned. The gray literature also uses the same terminology for categorizing data products. Source-aligned
data products [71, 97, 131, 143, 157, 160, 162, 166] ingest and process data from source systems such as operational
databases, external APIs, and sensors. The processed data is then offered as a product to be consumed by the organization’s
end-users or downstream data products. The aggregate data products [36, 71, 78] compose the data from the upstream
data products to produce the value-added data for downstream consumers. Compared to the aggregates, consumer-aligned
data products [71, 96, 122, 130, 143, 157, 159, 162, 166] are generally not sold as data products to other domains; instead,
they serve data to implement the end-user use cases of the organization.
   Figure 5 shows data products spread across domains. Some data products, e.g., product search, order, and invoice,
are source-aligned products. They mostly ingest raw data from the underlying operational data sources (e.g., product
and order databases), clean and transform the raw data, and store them locally. They also provide the interfaces to serve
their local domain data to other data domains. The aggregate data products, e.g., 360-degree customer views and product
recommendations, aggregate data from one or more domains and offer as a value-added product to one or more domains.
Some data products, e.g., funnel analytics and CRM dashboards, primarily serve end-users (i.e., consumer-aligned data
products).

   Characteristics of Data Products. Zhamak initially introduced six properties for a data product [37] and later added
two properties [40]. From the gray literature, we tried to identify the practitioner’s perspectives on them.
    Discoverable. Data consumers should be able to discover the data products in an organization easily. A common
        approach proposed in the gray literature is to use a central data/product catalog to store the metadata of data

3 https://www.openapis.org/

                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
8                                                                                                       Abel and Indika, et al.




                         Fig. 5. An example of data products in different domains, adopted from [71].




       products [4, 9, 14–18, 27, 31, 33, 58, 64, 71, 72, 74, 91, 92, 100, 102, 103, 107, 108, 112, 113, 115, 120, 124, 126,
       127, 130, 134, 143–146, 158, 166, 170, 171, 175, 178]. The data catalog can enable consumers to search for data
       products using metadata. However, Zhamak [40] does not recommend a central data catalog managed by a separate
       team, as data products are responsible for deciding and providing their discoverability information. Instead, the
       data product can offer a discovery interface that can be used to build product search and exploration capabilities at
       the mesh level.
    Interoperable. It should be (relatively) easy to combine or integrate data from different data products into composite
       data products. The consistent use of open standards and conventions across data products can increase interoper-
       ability between data products. The gray literature mentions several standards and practices a data mesh architecture
       should encompass [14, 15, 18, 27, 31, 55, 71, 130, 135, 144, 178, 180]. For example, the open standards for
       describing data products and their composition, including interfaces, metadata, and (access and management)
       policies, can ensure the interoperability of data products within and across organizations. In addition, standard
       metadata fields and business glossary models can guarantee that all data products are described unambiguously.
       Finally, a common method for data quality modeling can ensure all domains define their products’ data quality
       concerning the same KPIs (key performance indicators).
    Addressable. The interfaces of a data product should provide unique, programmatically accessible endpoints. The
       interfaces include those for ingesting and serving data and discovering and managing data products [40]. The gray
       literature primarily focused on data access endpoints and mentioned examples such as web service APIs [11, 65,
       67, 112, 113, 130, 156, 177, 178], storage buckets [9, 28, 100, 108, 110–112, 114, 130, 143, 170, 171], topics in
       publish-subscribe messaging systems [11, 14, 36, 67, 71, 110–113, 115, 125, 126, 130, 142, 143, 151, 178], and
       SQL endpoints [7, 61, 67].
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                                 9


      Natively Accessible. Zhamak [40] emphasizes that a data product should provide multiple endpoints to consume its
        data so consumers can use their preferred methods to access data products. Along the same lines, the gray literature
        mentioned that the data product needs to support polyglot data output interfaces [28, 38, 91, 112, 113, 145, 160].
      Understandable. The data models and natural language documentation of data products should help potential
        consumers understand the products’ semantics, syntactic, and behaviors/usage [40]. For example, the documentation
        of a data product can include the entities in the data the product consumes and produces, the relationship between
        those entities, the relationships with the other data products in the mesh, and the information about access patterns
        and how to request the access to data [3, 38, 55, 86, 131, 151, 178]. The information about product owners and
        subject matter experts can ensure that the consumers know whom to contact when needing more information
        related to the data. The schemas for all the data views can be used to describe the data structure. Service level
        objectives (SLOs) can describe the product’s quality and act as a data contract. The metadata of data lineage and
        provenance can show the origin of the data and give consumers trust in the data product as it becomes clear how
        the data is created and processed. The literature suggests using common data modeling languages or standards can
        help improve the understanding of data/messages exchanged between data products [151, 178].
      Secure. A data product must enforce the necessary security policies to ensure the consumers can use it in a secure
        and regulatory-compliant way [40]. The policies include but are not limited to data access control, data encryption
        at rest and data in transit, data confidentiality, and data retention. In the data mesh architecture, while the security
        policies are primarily managed centrally, their enforcement happens in a decentralized fashion [40]. The policy-as-
        code approach, where policies are defined and enforced using code in a high-level language, was recommended by
        Zhamak [40] and other practitioners [71, 112, 113, 135, 155, 156] for managing security policies of data products.
      Trustworthy. Data consumers should be able to trust the data coming from a data product. The gray literature
        provides several guidelines to enhance the trustworthiness of data products. Product owners can use a methodology
        provided by the federated governance team to model data quality to define their own product’s quality on several
        dimensions (e.g., completeness, accuracy, and timeliness) [70, 103, 108, 177]. Moreover, the self-serve platform
        can support product developers in ensuring quality throughout the product’s lifetime (e.g., automated monitoring
        of data quality issues and execution of corrective actions) [10, 151]. Product owners and consumers can also use
        a formal contract that defines a set of service-level objectives (SLOs), reflecting the target quality for each data
        product [91, 131, 134, 156]. Finally, another approach to improve the trustworthiness of data is to provide data
        provenance and lineage information to the product consumers so that they can inspect the origin and history of the
        data they use [28, 166, 178].
      Valuable on its own. The data offered by a product should possess long-term value to the rest of the organization.
        Even without being aggregated with other data products, a data product should support meaningful use cases [40].
        However, the gray literature mostly provides the use cases where the data from one domain becomes valuable to the
        organization once it is combined or correlated with the data from other domains, for example, user behavior data
        and sales information [143] and smart device data and enterprise data [177]. The value of a data product should be
        continuously monitored and maintained. The gray literature mentioned adopting the DataOps methodology [105]
        for automating the continuous delivery of high-quality data products to consumers [87, 113, 130, 135].

3.2     Principle 2: Domain Ownership of Data
A central data team often manages and shares analytical data in traditional data architectures. In contrast, data mesh
distributes the ownership of data to the teams or individuals (belonging to the domains in the organizations) closest to
                                                                                                      Manuscript submitted to ACM
10                                                                                                  Abel and Indika, et al.


the data and knows the data intimately [40]. Autonomous domain teams are responsible for building and managing data
products from domain data. Zhamak [37, 40, 41] advocates applying the Domain-Driven Design (DDD) approach [51] to
decompose the analytical data in an organization into data domains that align with organizational units.

     Domain Formation. The gray literature is in agreement with Zhamak regarding the use of DDD for identifying data
domains and their data products [38, 48, 71, 78, 86, 92, 95, 96, 112, 113, 115, 122, 127, 130, 151, 157, 162]. DDD
decomposes an organization’s business functions and capabilities into domains, enabling the designing of software
systems based on models of the underlying domains [51]. A domain model describes selected aspects of a domain using
the vocabulary (i.e., abstractions) shared by domain experts, users, and developers. Organizations already use separation
of responsibilities by decomposing the organization into different business domains (e.g., products, sales, and marketing).
Data products can be built around operational and analytical data produced by these business domains. Hence, business
domains form logical constituents for the distribution of data ownership and may be decomposed into subdomains to
manage their complexity better. Section 5.2 discusses the application of DDD for building data products.

     Responsibilities. Zhamak [37, 40, 41] identified two key responsibilities for domain teams: building and maintaining
data products and carrying out governance activities at the domain level. The gray literature also mentions similar
responsibilities [11, 22, 28, 31, 55, 61, 67, 74, 91, 97, 99, 102, 103, 108, 111, 112, 114, 125–127, 135, 141, 144, 146,
150, 162, 164–166]. Domain teams possess in-depth knowledge about domain data, including potential use cases and
consumers of data, as well as the processes and techniques for maintaining data quality. Hence, they can determine which
domain data assets should be provisioned as data products. They can use the tools and services the self-serve data platform
provides to create, manage, and serve data products (see Section 3.4). Domain teams also carry out governance activities
to ensure compliance and conformance of data products to relevant regulations, organizational policies, and standards
(see Section 3.3).

3.3     Principle 3: Federated Computational Governance
Data mesh uses a decentralized governance model in which sovereign domains govern their data products [37, 40, 41].
Overarching governance on a global level across the mesh of the data products mainly aims to ensure interoperability
between data products and to enforce standardizations and organization-wide policies [14, 19, 22, 28, 36, 47, 55, 70,
74, 81, 87, 96, 102, 103, 109, 135, 146, 158, 164, 165, 178]. Balancing the levels of centralization and decentralization
can be challenging in the federated governance model. On the one hand, centralization gives more control to ensure
interoperability and compliance. On the other hand, the domains need sufficient autonomy to build data products that
align with their business.

     Global Governance. We refer to the governance activities conducted by the federated governance team on the data
mesh level as global governance. The federated governance team comprises different kinds of representatives such as
domain experts, subject matter experts, governance experts, members from the legal department, the platform team, and
the management [40]. The common global governance activities include:
      Defining and Enforcing Organization-wide Standards. A key goal of standards is to increase the interoperability
         of data products [37, 40, 41]. Standards can also used to ensure data products adhere to security and privacy
         requirements modeled by the federated governance team. Zhamak [40] emphasized the standardization of the
         interfaces of data products, data and query modeling, and data lineage. The gray literature proposed several
         standards: W3C data catalog vocabulary for product metadata modeling [144], cloud events for event data [97],
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                           11


      Open API for product interfaces [65, 71], JSON schema for data modeling [71, 135], and ONNX (Open Neural
      Network Exchange) for machine leaving models [71].
   Defining and Enforcing Data Governance Policies. Data governance policies define rules or guidelines that en-
      force consistent and correct collection, storage, access, usage, and management of data assets in an organization.
      Zhamak [40] recommends cross-cutting concerns such as regulatory compliance, user identity management,
      and product ownership management for mesh-level governance policies. Several gray literature articles pre-
      sented examples of using a central identity and access management (IAM) provider to manage users and their
      permissions [92, 108] and a data catalog for automatically discovering and classifying sensitive data [92, 108, 126].
   Developing a Methodology to Define and Assess Data Quality. The federated governance team is also responsible
      for creating a methodology to define data quality to be enforced by data product owners [40]. According to
      literature sources [70, 103, 124, 135, 151], a standardized methodology and tools can ensure that all data products
      define quality on a common set of quality dimensions with shared definitions. A lack of consistent data quality
      enforcement will lead to data swamps [115, 127]. The practitioners propose using a common format for data
      quality constraints and results [164] and metadata rules for enforcing the consistent modeling of concepts shared
      across domains [91].
   Maintaining a Common Business Glossary. Organizations use business glossaries of business terms and their
      definitions to ensure the same definitions are used throughout the organization when analyzing data. The data
      mesh principles discourage creating one canonical data model for the whole organization, which goes against
      decentralization [40]. However, some gray literature sources recognize the importance of having a shared definition
      of concepts used throughout the organization (e.g., master and reference data such as customers and currency
      codes) as this contributes to the interoperability of data products [36, 154, 158, 161].
   Monitoring Data Mesh. The federated governance team should continuously observe and assess the overall health
      of the data mesh and make necessary interventions. Zhamak [37, 40, 41] discusses collecting metrics such as lead
      time to change a data product, the number of data product consumers, and data quality dimensions. They can be
      used to determine the value of a data product and make interventions such as promoting or demoting products.
      The gray literature sources also emphasized the importance of defining and measuring KPIs (Key Performance
      Indicators) such as levels of interoperability, compliance, and usage of data products [11, 49, 71, 102, 166].
   Creating Incentive Models. Provisioning data products will add to the domain teams’ normal workload and will
      likely not fit their traditional job descriptions [135]. For example, a supply chain department, whose main task
      is to optimize delivery routes, may not be keen on providing high-quality data to other domains. Without proper
      incentives, domains might not see a reason to build data products. Thus, organizations implementing or transforming
      to a data mesh architecture should develop an incentive model to motivate domains to provision their data as
      products and continuously govern the offered products [37, 40, 41]. Several gray literature articles emphasized the
      need for aligning the incentives of data producers and data consumers and motivating data producers to generate
      the operational metadata necessary to assess the quality and trustworthiness of data products [37, 41, 61, 67, 87,
      108, 151].


  Local Governance. We refer to the governance activities conducted by the product/domain teams on a product/domain
level as local governance. The product owner, potentially in combination with other domain members, is responsible for
conducting the local governance activities. Zhamak [37, 40, 41] identified several governance activities at the domain

                                                                                                 Manuscript submitted to ACM
12                                                                                                   Abel and Indika, et al.


level: domain data modeling, data quality assurance, and execution of data access control policies. The gray literature
mentions similar responsibilities for the local governance team:

      Managing the Data Models of the Product. The product team possesses domain knowledge and thus can accurately
        model the product’s data [61, 67, 87, 91, 108, 151]. The schemas of such models need to be evolved accordingly
        to reflect the changes in the domain’s data sources [10, 108].
      Managing Data Access. Domain experts thoroughly understand the data and can, therefore, best judge who should
        and should not have access to (which parts of) the data [78, 91, 112, 130]. In addition, tasks such as collecting
        data lineage, implementing data retention policies, and encrypting data can also be implemented at the product
        level [108, 120, 130].
      Managing Compliance and Conformance. Like managing access controls, ensuring compliance and conformance
        throughout the product’s lifetime requires a thorough understanding of the domain data [40, 78, 120]. The examples
        mentioned by the gray literature include the adherence to the data modeling standards [22, 146] and interoperability
        standards [124, 175], and ensuring privacy compliance [120, 130].
      Managing Data Quality. Using the quality assessment methodology defined by the federated governance team, the
        product team establishes the product’s target quality based on a set of quality dimensions [40]. The data quality
        tests mentioned in the gray literature include measuring data quality dimensions, validating schemas, and checking
        for violations of domain-specific business rules [91, 107, 146, 151, 166].
      Monitoring Data Product Health Throughout the lifetime of the product, the product owner monitors its operational
        health and ensures its capacity to meet consumers’ needs [49, 71, 102]. The gray literature mentions several
        metrics for assessing the operational health of data products: data quality metrics, uptime, performance, and
        cost [11, 49, 102].

     Automation of Governance Activities. Automation plays a significant role in the federated computational governance
model to ensure it can effectively scale throughout an organization [37, 40, 41]. According to gray literature sources [71,
107, 130], automation is key to coping with the data governance challenges introduced by frequent regulatory changes
and increases in product consumers and data sources. They also provided examples for data governance actions that can
be automated [71, 107, 130, 135, 166]: data classification (e.g., sensitivity labels), data anonymization and encryption,
data quality checks, data retention and deletion to ensure compliance, and automated monitoring, including alerts and
automatic responses (e.g., scale a resource to meet demand).

3.4     Principle 4: Self-Serve Data Platform
Data mesh advocates building domain-agnostic infrastructure and platform services and offering them in a self-service
manner to empower different actors involved in creating, deploying, and maintaining data products [37, 40, 41]. The
infrastructure services are to provision and manage computing resources such as VMs, networks, and storage disks.
The platform services support the design, development, deployment, and management of data products, governance
applications, and their components (e.g., data pipelines, ML pipelines, and microservices).

     Objectives. According to Zhamak [37, 40, 41], the self-serve platform aims to optimize the experience of data mesh
stakeholders (e.g., product developers, consumers, and governance teams) in their respective tasks, i.e., developing,
consuming, and governing data products. The gray literature is in agreement with Zhamak. First, the self-serve platform
can reduce product developers’ required level of specialization as they do not need in-depth knowledge of managing
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                             13


infrastructure and platform services [10, 55, 102, 150, 164]. Second, it can increase the efficiency of developing and
managing products as there is no duplication of efforts from each domain to manage platform services [11, 28, 55, 119,
132, 145, 150, 151]. Last, the common platform services can improve the uniformity of data products, reduce friction
between domains, and facilitate interoperability between data products [74, 81, 121, 166].

  Building Self-serve Data Platform. A team of highly specialized infrastructure and platform service developers builds
and maintains the platform [40]. This central platform team has to be in close contact with all domains to identify
and prioritize the requirements for platform services, their features, and their interfaces [78, 104]. The gray literature
recommends using IaC (Infrastructure as Code) blackprints to simplify the provision of data products using the self-serve
platform [28, 38, 93, 108, 121, 130, 145, 155, 158, 177]. The IaC templates encompass predefined configurations for
infrastructure resources and platform services and integrate security measures, policies, and standards in line with those
set by the federated governance team. For example, the data platform team can develop IaC templates for different data
product types (e.g., data pipelines, ML pipelines, and ML model services) and different product component types (e.g.,
a data ingestion component using the Kafka message broker, a data store component using Google object store, and
a training pipeline executor component using the AWS SageMaker). The product developers can find the correct IaC
templates, customize them as necessary, and use the updated templates to provision and manage their data products.

  Components of Self-Serve Data Platform. Zhamak proposes a logical decomposing of the platform into three layers:
data infrastructure utility plane, data product experience plane, and mesh experience plane [40, 41]. They aim to
encapsulate the capabilities to manage infrastructure and platform resources, build data products, and govern the data
mesh. A few gray literature sources discussed this logical architecture of the self-serve platform [131]. However, many
practitioners provided examples for platform components.

   Fundamental Computing Resources. The platform should offer compute, network, and storage resources, including
      virtual machines, network devices, and object stores. The literature sources mostly mention using resources from
      public IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) providers [7, 71, 92, 108, 113, 143, 150].
   Polyglot Data Stores. Regarding data storage, the common recommendation from the practitioners [28, 38, 70, 72,
      87, 103, 130, 145, 169, 175] and Zhamak [37, 40] is polyglot data stores that enable using multiple data storage
      technologies transparently within a single system. Data products might contain different data types that require
      different data stores. For example, a data product might consist of highly structured, tabular data stored in a
      relational database. In contrast, other data products might consist of highly unstructured data that can best be stored
      in an object store (e.g., videos or images). Thus, the platform must support the storage and serving of polyglot data.
   Services for Data Product Components. Data products generally consist of components such as data ingestion,
      data (ETL) pipeline, ML training pipeline, ML model storage, ML feature storage, message broker, and API [10,
      42, 87, 91, 103, 111, 126, 130, 145, 169, 177]. The product developers should be able to use platform services to
      implement and manage such product components. For example, the developers should be able to use the pipeline
      orchestration tools from the platform to develop, deploy, schedule, execute, and monitor data and ML pipelines in
      a self-service manner.
   Metadata Repository/Data Catalog. Products, their components, and their artifacts (e.g., ML models and database
      tables) have various metadata; thus, the platform needs a service to generate, store, and manage metadata. Moreover,
      company-wide metadata, such as standardized definitions of business terms and reference data, should also be
      available so product developers can incorporate them into their data products [154, 156, 161]. As mentioned in
                                                                                                   Manuscript submitted to ACM
14                                                                                                   Abel and Indika, et al.


        Section 3.1, a data catalog can be used to develop a product catalog service that stores product metadata to enable
        the discovery of data products.
      Federated Query Engine. The self-serve platform should offer a federated query engine to query data from different
        domains and sources, enabling product aggregators to create composite data products easily [61, 71, 87, 130, 169].
      Monitoring. The platform should offer tools that enable domain teams to monitor their data products and the
        federated global governance team to monitor the data mesh as a whole [40]. The tools should include but not
        be limited to functionality that enables monitoring of the operational health, lineage, costs, and performance
        concerning data quality metrics [11, 49, 102]. They should also support logging, alerts, and automated interventions
        (e.g., scaling up resources) [74, 102]. Finally, the monitoring tools must be integrated with the other relevant
        platform services, for example, adding monitoring capabilities to data pipelines and ML pipelines [10].
      Product Lifecycle Management. The platform should offer capabilities (e.g., product versioning, source control,
        and testing) to allow product developers to manage the lifecycle of a data product [28, 71, 91, 102]. Developers
        should be able to apply DevOps [46] practices when deploying and operating data products [169, 180]. For example,
        they should be able to use CI-CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery or Continuous Deployment)
        platform services to atomically build and test the data pipelines and APIs used by the products, deploy them using
        the pipeline orchestration and container hosting services of the self-serve platform.
      Security and Privacy. The platform services must enable the realization of data products’ security and privacy
        requirements [37, 40]. For example, the platform can include a data encryption service to secure data at rest
        and in motion [78, 108, 120]. In addition, an identity and access management (IAM) service can be provided
        to manage user and product identities and enforce access control policies for data products and other platform
        services [71, 92, 112, 120, 134, 145].
      Policy Enforcement. The platform should offer tools that allow local and global federated governance teams to
        define, store, attach, observe, and enforce governance policies [37, 40]. As mentioned in Section 3.1, the gray
        literature recommends using the policy-as-code approach for automating policy enforcement. Thus, the platform
        needs to support necessary tools such as OPA(Open Policy Agent) engines [112, 113]. Moreover, the platform
        must also provide services to support policy implementation, e.g., data anonymization service and data quality
        metrics calculation service [38, 42, 71, 115, 126].
      Business Intelligence (BI) Tools. BI dashboards and reporting applications are common types of consumer-aligned
        data products [71, 72, 157]. Thus, the platform should enable business users to explore data, create visualizations,
        generate insights, and create reports in a self-service manner [3, 91, 130, 169, 177].

4     RQ2. Motivations, Benefits, Concerns, and Applicability
This section presents the motivation for the data mesh approach, its perceived advantages and disadvantages, and the
factors determining its adoption in organizations.

     Motivations. Data Mesh was developed as a direct response to centralized monolithic data management approaches
that have been industry standards, such as data warehouses and data lakes. Based on the literature examined in this survey,
we find three factors that motivate organizations to adopt a data mesh paradigm in their organization.
      Scaling with Data Sources. As the number of data sources grows within an organization, it becomes increasingly
        difficult to maintain an overview of the various sources and guarantee their high-quality delivery. This problem
        became especially apparent during the rise of big data and has been one of the main motivations for developing data
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                               15


       lakes in favor of data warehouses [60]. Despite the widespread adoption of data lakes, gray literature demonstrates
       organizations still struggle to discover and make available all data within the organization [25, 28, 49, 64, 103, 163],
       make various data sources interoperable [25, 49, 113, 127] and establish data quality and consistency at the
       source [25, 70, 127, 165, 166]. Data mesh proposes to solve these issues at the source rather than address them
       centrally.
    Central Teams as a Bottleneck. The flip side to the ever-increasing number of data sources is the growing number
       of data-driven use cases in organizations. Usually, the data for these use cases is provided by a centralized team of
       hyperspecialized data engineers who also manage the monolithic data platforms in which the data is aggregated.
       However, relying on centralized teams hinders scalability and agility in data delivery, which is required to address
       the diverse needs of various data consumers [12, 19, 36, 70, 71, 102, 111, 127, 133, 136, 142, 150, 165, 166].
    Separation of Provider and Consumer Expertise. Another problem, which the previous problem compounds, is
       that, in most organizations, data provider expertise is separated from data consumer expertise. Effective data
       usage requires a deep understanding of the data and the proposed use case. Relying on centralized teams to
       understand both the context of the providing domain and the consuming domain puts additional stress on the
       existing bottleneck, whereas the data provider and data consumer can be counted on to know their respective
       domains [55, 61, 108, 150].

  Benefits. From the gray literature, we identified the following potential benefits of data mesh compared to traditional
data architectures. We briefly discuss each identified potential benefit’s relation to the problems that drive data mesh
transition, as identified above.

    Scalability. A data mesh architecture is much more scalable than a centralized data architecture since dependencies
       on a central management platform team are reduced, which allows the organization to scale horizontally (i.e.,
       more data sources) and vertically (i.e., more consumers) without creating a bottleneck [19, 42, 47, 49, 70, 102,
       108, 109, 120, 143, 164].
    Increased Agility. The benefits mentioned above make organizations more agile as they reduce the reliance on
       centralized teams and bring data providers directly in contact with data producers. By removing the bottleneck,
       they can deliver new data applications at a faster rate and can thus respond quickly to changing needs and
       goals [58, 70, 76, 120, 164]. Overall, organizations can create more data-driven applications that unlock the value
       of their data [119].
    Higher Data Quality. By making those close to the origin of the data responsible for offering it as a data product,
       accountability for data quality is established [19, 64, 72, 87, 108, 159, 162, 177]. Domain teams can use their
       domain-specific knowledge to build data products that are valuable to various customers [25, 110, 111, 145]. The
       federated governance team defines a set of global standards and policies that the domains must adhere to when
       creating data products [55, 70, 164].
    Better Data Discovery In the data mesh, domain teams are incentivized to maximize the usage of domain data
       products and, hence, to make the products easily discoverable [19, 58, 63]. Therefore, they create self-describing
       data products and publish product metadata to the central product registry/catalog for easy discoverability [72, 162].
       Improving the discoverability of data (products) lets organizations effectively scale the amount of data in their
       ecosystem.
    Better Governance. Data mesh also allows for better big data governance. The decentralized approach is more
       suitable for governing a high volume of data by distributing governance responsibilities to the domains close to the
                                                                                                     Manuscript submitted to ACM
16                                                                                                    Abel and Indika, et al.


        origin of the data [42, 70, 72]. Because data providers are in direct contact with data consumers, they can better
        judge who should and should not be able to use certain data in certain conditions and facilitate organizations to
        comply with external regulations [19, 96, 120].
      Reduced Data Lead Time. Lastly, domains can independently provision and maintain data products, and consumers
        can independently use these products through the self-service model without needing to rely on any centralized
        team. Moreover, domains and federated governance teams are empowered through the self-service platform,
        dramatically reducing the data lead time throughout the organization [14, 28, 70, 110, 165].


     Concerns and Disadvantages. Data mesh comes with its own set of challenges. Below, we present an overview of the
main concerns for the data mesh recognized by the gray literature.

      Change management. Moving to a data mesh architecture will challenge organizations from technical and orga-
        nizational perspectives [61, 70, 164]. Organizations already have established data management processes and a
        hierarchical organizational structure that will likely need restructured [61, 120, 127, 162]. The employees may
        be intimidated by changes and resist. To overcome this challenge, the organizations can train their teams on the
        cultural shift (the way of working) [127, 146], educate the stakeholders about the bigger picture and the overall
        benefits of the transition to the data mesh [103, 146, 162], and empower the existing business domain teams with
        data engineers [146]. The organizations can create an enabling team to work closely with domain teams to help
        onboard and consume data, train, and guide teams on data mesh best practices [71, 159].
      Lack of Talent. Data mesh requires domain teams to start operating independently, so the teams need members with
        the necessary technical skills (e.g., data engineering and machine learning). While a vital goal of the self-serve
        platform is to empower the developers of less technical expertise to develop data products, building self-serve
        platform services can be challenging and require time and effort for research and development. Unfortunately,
        there is a lack of experienced data engineers [48, 49, 61, 141, 165], which was also a common bottleneck in the
        data warehouse and lake architectures [165].
      Data Duplication. As domains repurpose data for new use cases in composite data products, data from source
        domains may be copied and duplicated. In particular, when implemented on a large scale, data mesh can potentially
        increase data management costs [47, 67, 70, 120, 159, 164]. Furthermore, as data is stored in different organizational
        locations, it will become more challenging to govern data [49, 141, 159]. The remedies proposed by the practitioners
        include creating data virtualization techniques (e.g., zero-copy data access) that enable ingesting data without
        copying them and developing open protocols for sharing data securely and efficiently [62, 127, 141].
      Effort Duplication. Even though the self-serve platform tries to reduce the duplication of efforts concerning data
        platform management, there will still be a certain degree of duplication of efforts and skills for building and
        maintaining pipelines throughout the different domains compared to a team working on centralized data [47, 55,
        102, 104, 127].
      Technical Debt. Multiple data products and pipelines developed by independent teams may not adhere to a common
        set of software development best practices and principles [70, 135, 164]. Using improper practices when developing
        data products can lead to a huge technical debt. Hence, a mature federated governance model can reduce the
        technical debt by accurately recognizing and enforcing standards, best practices, and so on [40, 70, 135].
      Complexity. The distributed and decentralized nature of the data mesh increases the overall complexity as it requires
        managing and coordinating many independent and diverse units [38, 112, 159]. The data mesh can also introduce
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                             17


        more interoperability challenges for organizations that adopt a multi-cloud approach [127]. The complexity can
        decrease as the self-service platform and computational governance model mature [40].


    Applicability. The gray literature recognizes several conditions for which the data mesh is more suitable than a
centralized data architecture.

     Large and Diverse Data Landscape. Organizations with a large data landscape and many data providers and con-
        sumers might benefit from a decentralized architecture [4, 70, 73, 83, 99, 102, 103, 109, 136, 145, 164]. Also,
       when organizations possess diverse data sets that frequently change over time, the data mesh might serve better
        than a centralized approach with many point-to-point connections [38, 55, 73, 99].
     Need for Agility. Organizations whose data platform and central data provisioning teams reduce their innovative
        capabilities and require a faster time to market for data applications can benefit from a data mesh architecture [42,
       70, 99, 102, 127, 136]. Also, when there is a need to experiment with data frequently, data mesh is more beneficial
        than a centralized architecture as it removes the dependency on an oversized and overloaded data provisioning
        team [12, 102].
     Need for better Data Governance. Centralized data lakes can quickly become data swamps without data ownership
        and governance models. Data mesh can resolve these issues for organizations needing clear data ownership and
        highly governed data based on domain knowledge [55, 103, 145]. In addition, organizations that face many external
        regulations can use data mesh to ensure compliance as the data mesh facilitates better data governance [52, 108,
       120].

    Data mesh may not be the most practical data architecture for all organizations. The gray literature mentions several
scenarios where the data mesh approach may not be the most suitable option.

     Lack of Domain-Orientation. The data mesh presumes an organizational structure of independent cross-functional
        teams aligned with the structures of business domains. If an organization (e.g., typically small and medium-sized
        companies) does not follow domain-driven design principles and does not have multiple teams who can make data
        products independently, then the data mesh approach may not fit the organization [64, 71, 73, 127, 136, 159].
     Low Data Governance Maturity Level. The data mesh needs matured data governance support to prevent data
        silos and to ensure the regulatory compliance of data processing across autonomous domains. Thus, it may not
        be suitable for organizations with a low level of maturity in data governance (e.g., no automated data quality
        assessment or regulatory compliance checking) [42, 71, 73, 146, 159].
     Low Data Platform Maturity Level. The self-serve data platform is key to reducing the cost of owning data products
        and implementing data governance across domains. Building a self-serve data platform can be impractical for
        organizations without experienced data platform engineers [71, 73].
     Lack of Data Use Cases. When an organization has a small number of useful analytical data sources and a few data
        use cases, the cost and risks of transitioning a data mesh would far outweigh the benefits [42, 71, 73].


5    RQ3. How should an Organization Build a Data Mesh?
This section presents a set of reference architectures to describe the data mesh architecture in detail. We leveraged the
relevant architectures used in the service-oriented computing domain and the insights from our gray literature review.
                                                                                                   Manuscript submitted to ACM
18                                                                                                     Abel and Indika, et al.


5.1     A Layered Architecture of Capabilities and Roles in Data Mesh
This section introduces a layered model to logically organize different constructs, roles, and responsibilities in a data
mesh architecture. We mapped the relevant findings from our gray literature study into the xSOA model [117, 118], which
aims to group and logically structure the capabilities of complex SOA applications. Figure 6 shows the layered model
of the data mesh. The separation into layers highlights the different needs regarding i) providing the infrastructure and
platform services necessary for realizing and consuming data products, ii) creating, consuming, and composing data
products, and iii) managing data products throughout their lifecycle. It is important to highlight that although higher
layers build on lower layers, they only represent a separation of concerns and do not imply a hierarchy.
     As discussed in Section 3.1, Zhamak and the gray literature categorize data products into source-aligned, aggregates,
and consumer-aligned. By adopting service types in SOA, we classify them into atomic and composite data products.
Like composite web services, composite data products use other data products (atomic or composite) for their source data
and integrate them to create new value-added products. Hence, aggregates and consumer-aligned products are composite
products. The source-aligned data products are atomic because they only ingest data from the operational source systems.
     The layered architecture shown in Figure 6 does not depict all responsibilities in a data mesh architecture. Instead, it
provides a view of the responsibilities needed to create individually managed data products. For example, the federated
governance team’s responsibility to create a business glossary is not included in this architecture because this is not related
to building a specific managed data product at runtime.

     Roles. We identified six different roles for data mesh actors:

      Data Platform Teams are responsible for building and maintaining the self-serve data platform [37, 78, 99, 104, 111,
         126]. They also create the IaC blackprints that product developers can use to provision and configure infrastructure
         resources and platform services for hosting and managing data products. They need to possess software and data
         engineering skills [99].
      Product Owners are responsible for offering and governing the data products in their domains [14, 16, 37, 41, 47,
         61, 70, 74, 78, 125–127, 144, 150, 164, 166]. They must ensure that the data products are interoperable and meet
         the requirements of the consumers. They are generally responsible for domain-level governance activities (see
         Section 3.3).
      Product Developers build and publish data products on the data mesh using the tools/services the self-serve platform
         provides [33, 37, 41, 47, 61, 127, 135].
      Product Aggregators build and provide composite data products. The gray literature does not explicitly mention the
         aggregator role. We introduced it to clearly distinguish between the responsibilities and capabilities of building
         source-aligned atomic data products from composite data products.
      Product Consumers use data from the data products [1, 72, 81, 108, 155]. Product aggregators are also product
         consumers since they consume multiple other data products and aggregate them into composite data products.
      Federated Governance Teams comprise representatives from different domains across the organization and govern
         the mesh globally [41, 61, 71, 120, 135, 164]. Section 3.3 discusses the governance activities of the federated
         governance team.

     Self-Serve Layer. Self-serve platforms offer a set of tools/services in a self-service fashion that the actors involved in
a data mesh architecture can use to fulfill their responsibilities (see Section 3.4). For example, product developers can
use the platform services to develop, test, deploy, and evolve their data products. In contrast, the product owners and the
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                               19




                          Fig. 6. The layered architecture of capabilities and roles in data mesh.



federated governance team can use platform services to monitor and govern individual data products and the overall data
mesh.

  Data Product Layer. The data product layer sits on top of the self-serve layer. As discussed in Section 3.1, data products
consist of data, metadata, code, interfaces, and the infrastructure to deploy the product. Once the product developers
define and implement all components, the data products can be published in a product catalog. Product consumers browse
the catalog to discover candidate data products for their use cases and check the corresponding metadata to verify that
they suit their needs. Product metadata can also enable consumers to automatically connect (binding) to the data products
to obtain their data. For example, if a data product uses a storage bucket as a serving endpoint, it can publish the metadata,
such as the URL of the bucket and the names and schemas of the result objects, to the catalog [115].
  Composite data products use data from other (atomic or composite) data product(s), potentially apply complex
transformations, and publish the results as new data products (see Section 3.1). Composite data products contain the
same components as atomic data products. However, product aggregators perform additional actions to build composite
data products, similar to the additional responsibilities in xSOA [118]. To distinguish between these responsibilities, the
                                                                                                     Manuscript submitted to ACM
20                                                                                                 Abel and Indika, et al.


layered architecture in Figure 6 differentiates between product developers, who build atomic data products, and product
aggregators, who create composite data products.
     Composite data products need to provide new value to the organization. A simple integration of two data sources can
easily be replicated and may not provide sufficient additional value. Therefore, a product aggregator may need to perform
complex transformations on the data from upstream data products to create value-added data. Furthermore, composing
products may involve coordinating a series of steps,e.g.,, ingesting data from multiple data products, merging the data
from a subset set of products, cleaning and standardizing data, and validating and storing intermediate and final results.
     Composite data products must conform with the upstream data products throughout their lifetime. For example,
upstream product developers might change their data products (e.g., schema and product interfaces), which can affect
downstream consumers [10, 28, 71, 71, 151]. Product aggregators must deal with such issues by adopting suitable
strategies such as product versioning and using an anti-corruption layer (an adapter layer) [10, 71].


     Management and Governance Layer. Data products must be managed and governed at runtime to ensure they provide
value to the organization. As discussed in Section 3.3, there are two levels of governance: local and global. The local
governance (per each product) is responsible for the quality and conformance of individual data products. For example,
the local governance team must ensure that a data product operates within the specified SLOs throughout its lifetime and
remains compliant with local and global policies and external regulations. The owners of the composite products also need
to monitor the performance of upstream data products in terms of service level objectives (SLOs). The performance of the
composite data products can be affected by that of upstream data products. Thus, a product aggregator needs to monitor
the performance of upstream products to determine any SLO violations and ensure the composite products operate within
its SLOs. The main goal of global governance at runtime is to ensure that the mesh architecture can scale throughout the
organization effectively. The federated governance team monitors the mesh to assess the data mesh’s overall health and
enforce the global policies, interoperability standards, and guidelines.


5.2     A Layered Architecture for Data Mesh Development
The data mesh literature does not explicitly provide an end-to-end methodology for implementing data mesh in or across
organizations. However, the literature advocates applying the principles of domain-driven design (DDD), product thinking,
and platform-based development. In particular, data products should be identified by applying DDD to the data produced
by the business domains of the organization [1, 11, 28, 33, 37, 39, 41, 48, 71, 87, 92, 95, 103, 113, 115, 122, 124, 130,
134, 151, 154, 157, 158, 162]. Inspired by a layered model for SOA development [116], we introduce a layered model for
data mesh development that integrates the previously mentioned principles. Figure 7 shows the proposed layered approach
to data mesh development. The model comprises seven distinct layers: business domains, data domains, data-bounded
contexts, data products, data product components, self-serve platform services, and operating infrastructure.
     Following the DDD method, the first layer decomposes an organization’s business into disjoint domains. A business
domain consists of a set of business processes that share a common set of business capabilities and collaborate to
accomplish the business goals and objectives of the domain [116]. These processes produce valuable data for the domain
and the rest of the organization and can thus be offered as data products. For example, a manufacturing organization may
include domains such as distribution, manufacturing, finance, and human resources [116]. The distribution domain may
comprise key business processes such as consumer purchasing, order management, and inventory. The purchasing process
may produce data containing information about products or services, time of purchase, and the amount spent. This data
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                             21




                                 Fig. 7. A layered model for the data mesh development.


may be exploited to build data products to answer queries about purchase history, customer buying patterns, and other
relevant details, such as stock availability and product appearance.
  The second layer partitions the analytical data of a business domain into one or more data domains. Data domains define
boundaries around the analytical data. From the viewpoints of data mesh and data governance, data domains categorize
and organize data to assign accountability and responsibility for the data. As discussed above, different business processes
in a business domain may produce multiple data. Due to the diversity and complexity of processes, the responsibility
for each process may be assigned to a separate team [32]. Similarly, the analytical data of processes may be owned by
different teams, originating multiple data domains from the same business domain. The gray literature also recommends
aligning business and data domains and creating new domains for shared data as appropriate [11, 28, 33, 39, 48, 87, 95,
113, 133, 151, 157, 158, 162].
  The third layer identifies the bounded contexts within each data domain. The gray literature recommends using
bounded contexts for scoping data products [41, 115, 127, 130, 134, 154, 157, 162]. DDD designs and implements
software systems based on domain models, which are the object models of the domains that incorporate both behavior
and data in the domain [51, 54]. Creating and maintaining a unified model for larger and more complex domains, where
multiple teams work on separate subsystems, may not be feasible or cost-effective [51, 54]. To tackle this issue, DDD
partitions the solution space of a domain into bounded contexts, where each can have a separate domain model. A data
domain can also be complex and include multiple logical groupings of data. Each group can have a separate data owner
and model (i.e., bounded contexts for decomposing data domains). For example, there may be different categories of
customers: online only, physical only, third party, prospect, individual, group, corporation, government, and charity.
                                                                                                   Manuscript submitted to ACM
22                                                                                                   Abel and Indika, et al.


Managing data for each or subset of these categories might differ, and multiple teams or individuals might be responsible
for it. Consequently, multiple bounded contexts emerge within a customer data domain.
     Various dependencies (design time and runtime) may exist between data bounded contexts. The gray literature
recommends using the strategic design patterns of DDD (e.g., customer-supplier and anti-corruption layer) to integrate
bounded contexts (i.e., context mapping) [158]. For example, a bounded context of a composite product can use the
anti-corruption layer to minimize the impacts of the changes to the data models of the data products from the upstream
bounded contexts [71]. For example, a data product for sales funnel analysis uses the customer search data product to get
customers’ browsing history. The funnel analysis product can implement an anti-corruption layer to prevent the adverse
effect of changes in browsing history data format.
     The fourth layer identifies data products within each bounded context. For building applications for a bounded context,
DDD recommends applying so-called tactical design patterns: entity, value object, aggregate, service, repository, factory,
event, and module. These patterns can be used to enrich a domain model of a bounded context, and the enriched model
can be used to derive the application architecture components. For example, in a microservice architecture, services,
APIs, and events can be deduced from the domain model using the tactical design patterns [149]. The data mesh gray
literature [11, 71, 92, 122] also recommends applying these patterns, for example, using domain main events for ingesting
and serving data and implementing a log of data changes, and using entities and aggregates for identifying products and
creating database schemas and product APIs.
     The fifth layer consists of the components that implement functional and non-functional requirements of data products.
Different types of data products exist, such as datasets (offered as database views or APIs), data pipelines, ML training
pipelines, and ML prediction services. Different data products may use different architectures. For example, data pipeline
products may use popular data architecture styles such as Lambda and Kappa [35], and ML prediction services may
use architecture styles as model-as-a-service or model-as-a-dependency [173]. The resulting data products can have
components like streaming data ingestion, ETL workflows, storage of raw, cleaned, and enriched data, model and feature
storage, APIs, data quality assessors, and report generators. Data products can also share the implementation of some
components, such as a generic data validating service or model validation service.
     The sixth layer consists of the self-serve platform services that support the end-to-end lifecycle of data products
and their components, from design, implementation, testing, deployment, execution, and monitoring to evolution. For
example, data product developers should be able to use an ETL platform service in a self-service manner to create
ETL pipelines for their data products, deploy and execute the created pipelines on-demand or according to a schedule,
monitor the performance, resource usage, and errors of the executed pipelines, and make changes to the pipeline as
necessary. Section 3.4 lists common platform services we found from the gray literature. The platform team is responsible
for self-serve platform services. They may develop platform services from scratch, reuse and customize third-party
software, use the platform services offered by cloud providers, and modernize existing platform services by incorporating
self-service capabilities.
     The seventh layer mainly includes the infrastructure resources used by the platform services and data products and the
existing systems in the organization that act as data source systems.
     In a data mesh, management and governance applications are used by the federated governance team, in addition to
data products, to monitor and control data products. Figure 7 does not explicitly include those applications. However,
since those applications may use the monitoring data of the data mesh, developers may develop and offer them as data
products. Furthermore, the management applications should also be able to use self-serve platform services.

Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                            23


5.3   A Logical Runtime Structure of Data Mesh
This section presents a logical runtime view of a data mesh. The data mesh architectures presented in the gray literature
source primarily focus on the runtime model of an inter-connected web of managed (governed) data products across
data domains [4, 11, 28, 31, 41, 50, 55, 71, 72, 78, 103, 111–113, 127, 131, 170, 171, 175]. We extracted the essential
components from those architecture designs and created a consolidated model by consulting web service management
architectures [80, 85, 116, 117]. Figure 8 depicts the reference architecture at runtime.
  A product container is a deployment and runtime environment for a data product and its managing agents. We borrowed
the concept of a container and a management agent from Web services containers and management agents [116]. As in
the web service management architectures [85, 116, 117], we separate the communication between data products, source
systems, and end-users (data channel and input/output interfaces) and the communication between the management agents
and the management/governance plane (management channel and management interface). The input interface [3, 10,
38, 71, 78, 92, 114, 177] enables data products to receive data from source systems and other data products. The output
interface [3, 10, 38, 78, 92, 114, 124, 177] allows data products to provide their data to consumers or composite data
products. Finally, the management interfaces [38, 71, 78, 92] enable monitoring and controlling the behaviors of data
products (e.g., monitor product performance, raising alerts, controlling data routing, and enforcing security policies and
data contracts). The modes of communication can be pull-based (e.g., retrieving data via a REST API [11, 14, 15, 41,
91, 95, 113, 154, 158, 177] or reading from a shared database/bucket [38, 67, 78, 100, 108, 130, 142, 157, 162, 177] or
polling data from a message broker [14, 15, 17, 18, 67, 71, 78, 91, 112, 113, 154, 158, 177]) or push-based (e.g., pushing
the data to the downstream consumers as the data become available [10, 18, 40, 71, 108]).
  The management agents [37, 38, 112, 113] of a product implement management tasks at the product level, such
as marking and enforcing policy decisions, collecting performance metrics, and managing the product life cycle (i.e.,
creating, updating, and destroying products). The gray literature recommends using the sidecar design pattern and
the policy-as-code approach to implement the monitoring and policy enforcement capabilities of the management
agents [15, 39, 112, 113, 156]. The sidecar pattern [20] decouples policy decision-making from the data product and can
enable reuse and consistent implementation of monitoring and management logic across data products. The policy-as-code
approach uses programming code to write policies, allowing applying software development best practices such as version
control, automated testing, and automated deployment. A policy manifests as a set of rules that dictate the behaviors of
the management agents, for example, how to enforce authentication and authorization policies for data product access,
when to raise alerts, and where to route messages.
  The components/applications in the management and governance plane can use the management interfaces of products
to receive information (e.g., performance data, access logs, and alerts) from data products and to send configuration and
policy updates to the data products. We identified several key components for this plane from the gray literature: data
product registry and discovery service [16, 102, 130, 166], policy authoring service and policy repository [28, 71], global
metadata repository [28, 31, 71, 161], and data mesh dashboard [28, 71]. The product registry and discovery service is
connected to the management channel. Product developers publish the metadata of their products over the management
channel. Consumers can discover data products by using the published metadata. The global metadata repository can store
metadata shared across domains, such as master and reference data. The federated governance team can create global
policies (e.g., interoperability, security, and compliance) using the policy authoring services, store them in the policy
repository for reuse and versioning, and enact them using the management interfaces provided by the individual products.



                                                                                                  Manuscript submitted to ACM
24                                                                                              Abel and Indika, et al.




                                   Fig. 8. Logical runtime structure of a data mesh.



The team can use the data mesh dashboard to monitor the operational health of the data mesh, including the cross-domain
access and usage of data products and level of policy compliance.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                               25


    The self-serve platform plane provides infrastructure resources and platform services to develop, test, build, deploy,
execute, monitor, and manage data products and governance components. For example, a data product can use the
ML workflow platform service to create and run the training pipelines. The product registry and discovery service can
use data/product catalog or metadata repository platform services. Section 3.4 discusses the key platform services of a
self-serve platform.


6    RQ4. What are the Research Challenges concerning Data Mesh?
In this section, we put forward a set of research challenges for data mesh that need to be addressed. We identified them
by mapping the challenges mentioned by the practitioners in the gray literature to the relevant research issues from the
service-oriented computing [117, 118, 174] and data management [5, 45, 69, 152].

     Standardizing Data Mesh. The data products in a data mesh should be interoperable to enable the seamless composi-
        tion of products and foster cross-domain collaboration. The data products also need to be portable so that self-serve
        platform services and governance applications can be modified or replaced with little or no modification to data prod-
        ucts. The standardization of the data mesh can enable its interoperability and portability [4, 12, 36, 71, 127, 158].
       The standards are necessary for i) defining data products, their interfaces, and their composition; ii) data product
        publishing and discovery, quality assessment, deployment, and governance; iii) self-serve platform services and
        their interfaces; and iv) artifacts used/produced by data products (e.g., data models, metadata, and ML models).
       The standardization efforts in the SOA and cloud domains can potentially help address these challenges. For
        example, the Web Service Description Language (WSDL) supports modeling services with diverse endpoints,
        message types, and access policies (e.g., HTTP endpoints, publish-subscribe topics, and FTP endpoints) [117].
        Hence, WDSL and other related web service standards may help identify the concepts for modeling different types
        of data products. Topology and Orchestration Specification for Cloud Applications (TOSCA) is an OASIS standard
        language used to model the deployment topologies of complex applications [13]. It can be a suitable candidate for
        a technology-agnostic IaC language that can define the interoperable deployment blackprints for data products and
        self-serve platform components.
     Methodologies and Tools for Data Mesh Development and Operation. The data mesh literature [41, 102, 111,
       112, 120, 127, 130, 158] provides general principles for developing a data mesh architecture, e.g., domain-driven
        design (DDD), product thinking, platform thinking, and computational governance. However, no tools and detailed
       (empirically validated) methodologies exist for applying these principles to develop and operate a data mesh.
        Organizations would also need guidance and tools for systematically migrating their legacy data architectures
        into data mesh while assessing costs and benefits. The research issues may benefit from the rich knowledge about
        applying DDD for designing and implementing microservices [183] and migrating legacy monolithic architectures
        into cloud-based microservices architectures [66].
     Data Product Life Cycle. Data products are at the heart of a data mesh. Each phase of a data product life cycle
       (e.g., identification, design, development, testing, deployment, discovery, composition, operation, monitoring,
        and evolution) can have open challenges [41, 43, 115, 127, 130, 134, 154, 157, 162]. For example, the product
        identification phase decomposes the analytical data landscape of an organization into a set of data products. The
        partitioning process needs to support applying domain-driven design correctly, ensure the modularity and utility of
        data products, and consider reuse of the artifacts of the existing data architecture, such as data source systems, data
        pipelines, machine learning pipelines, documentation, and execution logs. Further exploratory research studies
                                                                                                     Manuscript submitted to ACM
26                                                                                                  Abel and Indika, et al.


       are needed to properly understand the research challenges in each phase of the product life cycle. Due to the
       comparability of a data product and a service, we believe the existing relevant research studies on SOA and
       microservices can help understand and address the above product challenges. For example, there exist literature on
       web service discovery [106] and composition [147], DDD for microservices development [183], and metadata
       management techniques for data stores [148] and web services [167].
     Self-serve Platform Services. The domain teams need to be able to use domain-agnostic platform services in a
       self-service manner to easily and independently build and manage their data products. While there exist research
       studies on self-serve systems, e.g., self-service BI (business intelligence) [82] and self-service portals for cloud
       applications [98], they do not cover each platform service type, e.g., data pipelines, ML pipelines, and IaC based
       data product provisioning. Moreover, the recommender systems can also be incorporated into platform services
       to assist users with building data products, e.g., providing recommendations interactively when creating a data
       pipeline or IaC blackprint. Finally, since organizations may already use data platforms, they may need guidance
       and techniques to add self-service capabilities to their legacy data platforms [28, 37, 61, 74, 78, 150, 177]. The
       existing literature on recommender systems for software engineering investigates simplifying and assisting users in
       each phase of the software development lifecycle [6, 57]. Many studies have explored generating code, including
       SQL and data processing code, from natural language descriptions [179]. LLMs (Large Langauge Models) have
       also shown great potential in this research area [128, 182].
     Data Mesh Governance. While data governance has been an active research topic for several decades, as noted in
       several recent reviews [2, 34, 69], there are still many open research issues. Data mesh, especially its principles
       of decentralized ownership of data and federated computational governance, may add new dimensions to data
       governance research issues. For example, the efficient composition of data products across domain boundaries
       (and potentially across organizational boundaries) depends on the ability of the federated governance mechanisms
       to ensure that data products are interoperable, comply with QoS (Quality of Service) and policy requirements, and
       in line with the company-wide data strategy [41, 78, 120, 127, 158]. Moreover, the end-to-end data governance
       automation using the policy-as-code approach (i.e., computational governance) is largely unexplored. The policy-
       as-code approach has been applied in use cases such as enforcing policies in microservice architectures (using the
       service mesh) [26] and IaC-based deployment pipelines [181], as well as enforcing contracts in machine learning
       environments [168].
     Organizational Change Management. As discussed in Section 5.1, data mesh introduces a set of new roles and
       responsibilities for teams and individuals in an organization. In particular, the responsibilities of domain data are
       shifted closer to decentralized autonomous domain teams. Hence, for organizations that use centralized operating
       models and organizational designs, embarking on a data mesh journey may require a significant organizational
       change (in addition to technological changes). Data mesh can also significantly impact an organization’s existing
       data management and governance processes and practices. Thus, more studies are necessary to understand the
       organizational impacts of data mesh and the barriers to the adoption of data mesh, as well as to create guidelines
       and frameworks to perform and manage required organizational changes [12, 37, 61, 74, 120, 127, 162]. The
       research on migrating on-premise systems to the cloud and legacy applications to microservices has also studied
       organizational challenges and potential solutions for them [59, 172]. Further research could also help to understand
       and address the organizational challenges in data mesh transition.



Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                               27


7     Related Work
This section reports on the studies concerning data mesh and related surveys.


7.1    Studies on Data Mesh
Loukiala et. al. describe migrating from centralized, monolithic data platform architectures to a decentralized data-mesh-
like architecture at a large Nordic manufacturing country [88]. Their work emphasizes concrete steps that can be taken
during such a migration and provides high-level contrasts between traditional data warehouse architecture and data mesh.
Machado et. al. present several works on data mesh anatomy and architecture. The first is an overview and explanation of
data mesh concepts highlighted by two implementations in the industry (an online retailer, i.e., Zalando, and a streaming
platform, i.e., Netflix) [8]. Then, in another paper, they introduce a “domain model” that contains the abstract classes of a
data mesh and a high-level architecture [89]. Finally, based on these works, they investigate existing (commercial) tools
that can be used to realize a data mesh implementation and validate their architectural model through a proof-of-concept
implementation demo [90]. Similarly, Butte and Butte [23] present a more-complete reference architecture. However, it is
unclear what their architecture is based on, as the paper provides no clear references to the sources. These are currently
the only published academic works explicitly discussing data mesh architecture. However, their descriptions of the data
mesh concepts lack a thorough exploration of the state-of-the-art in data mesh. Instead, they are almost exclusively based
on the blog posts of Zhamak Dehghani [37, 41], as well as two corporate presentations: Zalando [94] and Netflix [29].
    Kumar and Sujata [24] describe the key concepts of the data mesh, present a template for a data processing pipeline
within a domain, and provide an example of a data mesh deployment using AWS cloud. Li et. al. [84] presents a case
study of applying data mesh concepts to power system data management. They use a federated data processing engine
and a metadata layer over raw data sources to build value-added data services. Podlesny et. al. [123] discusses the
potential data privacy issues that a distributed data mesh can have, focusing on exposing PII (Personal Identifiable
Information) data through quasi-identifiers. Kraska et. al. [77] propose a visionary system that aims to provide a unified
data processing interface over a federated set of data processing engines, allowing non-expert end-users to use the data to
access different specialized engines. Dahdal et. al. [30] presents an architecture for a middleware system on the edges
that offers data-intensive applications for tactical battlefields as data products. The middleware offers common data
management features such as data ingestion, storage, security, and APIs. Hooshmand et. al. [68] proposes applying the
data mesh approach to engineering product lifecycle management (PLM). They also suggest applying domain-driven
design and using ontologies for data modeling.


7.2    Related Surveys
Oliveira et. al. investigated the state-of-the-art literature on ‘data ecosystems’ in 2018 [138]. Data mesh falls under their
intended definition of data ecosystems, and their work discusses many elements that are relevant to data mesh. However,
none of the studies investigated mention data mesh or any closely related term. Another meta-study that investigates the
activities and challenges in big data (eco)systems and their implications on architectures is presented by Davoudian and
Liu [35]. Again, the activities and challenges identified in this paper relate directly to those of data mesh. However, the
literature discussed herein focuses entirely on traditional data lakes and data warehouses as state-of-the-art. It is only
recently that data mesh has started to appear in literature surveys. For example, Driessen et. al. [44] explicitly discuss data
mesh, which they consider a special kind of (internal) data market. However, in this work, data mesh is considered only
abstractly in the larger context of data-exchanging ecosystems, and no extensive discussion of data mesh architecture
                                                                                                     Manuscript submitted to ACM
28                                                                                                                         Abel and Indika, et al.


is provided. Based on the existing literature, therefore, we conclude that there exists a knowledge gap on data mesh
architecture: On the one hand, papers that explicitly discuss a data mesh architecture ([88, 90]) do not consider a broad
spectrum of sources on which to base their architecture definition. On the other hand, existing metastudies that look at the
state-of-the-art in data ecosystems [35, 44, 138] hardly discuss data mesh sources nor provide a reference architecture.
     Given the work above, there are no reviews of the data mesh literature. Moreover, only a little academic literature
is available on the topic, primarily based on a few gray articles. Therefore, this review paper systematically analyzed,
assessed, and summarized such literature sources.

8     Threats to Validity
This section discusses the potential threats to external, construct, and internal validity [176] that may apply to our study.
First, we note the risk of missing relevant studies for the systematic gray literature review. Since the field is developing
rapidly, it can be interesting to repeat the gray literature review after some time to see how the topic matures as the
industry adopts it more. Hence, we extended the study to include sources from September 2021 to May 2022, which
yielded 35 new sources.
     Additionally, as part of our methodology’s article selection process, we rely on the authors’ (subjective) expertise to
determine a source’s quality and relevance. Such a process risks introducing bias to the final selection. Therefore, two
authors assessed each source, and an inter-reliability kappa coefficient was calculated to ensure bias was not too high.
     Finally, the reference architecture was created systematically by examining various sources. However, as noted above,
few complete, holistic architecture instances exist to compare with, and many sources only consider partial architectures.
These partial architecture instances might lead to a sub-optimal holistic reference architecture. At the same time, we note
that this problem is somewhat cyclical: a reference architecture can contribute significantly to the number of complete
architecture instantiations, which in turn can improve future reference architectures.

9     Conclusion and Future Work
Although enterprises are increasingly becoming data-driven, their centralized monolithic data architectures still prevent
them from leveraging the full value of their analytical data. The data mesh is an emerging domain-driven decentralized ar-
chitecture and sociotechnical paradigm that promises to address the limitations of centralized enterprise data architectures.
Even though the data mesh is gaining significant attention in the industry, there is an evident scarcity of academic research
on the topic. This paper systematically selects and reviews 114 industrial gray literature on data mesh to identify key
design principles, architectural components, organizational roles, benefits, and concerns. The findings from the review
were further enriched with the academic literature from similar domains to create reference architectures for its key
dimensions. Finally, we identified research challenges that need to be addressed to realize the vision of the data mesh. We
believe the identified open issues and reference architectures can provide a framework for future data mesh research.
     As for future work, we will propose domain-specific languages to define data products and decision-marking platforms
for the three pillars of the data mesh: data as a product, self-serve platforms, and federated governance. We will create the
metamodels for data products and contracts and develop a method to design and instantiate a data mesh architecture by
leveraging the reference architectures provided in this paper.

References
    [1] Tareq Abedrabbo. 2021. Data Mesh in the real world: Lessons learned from the financial markets. ttps://www.infoq.com/presentations/cmc-markets-
        challenges/[Accessed: March 2023].
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                                                  29


 [2] Rene Abraham, Johannes Schneider, and Jan vom Brocke. 2019. Data governance: A conceptual framework, structured review, and research agenda.
     International Journal of Information Management 49 (2019), 424–438.
 [3] Adevinta. 2021. Building a data mesh to support an ecosystem of data products at Adevinta. https://medium.com/adevinta-tech-blog/building-a-
     data-mesh-to-support-an-ecosystem-of-data-products-at-adevinta-4c057d06824d[Accessed: March 2023].
 [4] AgileLab. 2021. Data Mesh explanation: How and why successful data-driven companies are adopting Data Mesh. https://medium.com/agile-lab-
     engineering/data-mesh-explanation-a207fac61341/ [Accessed: March 2023].
 [5] Majid Al-Ruithe, Elhadj Benkhelifa, and Khawar Hameed. 2019. A systematic literature review of data governance and cloud data governance.
     Personal and Ubiquitous Computing 23 (2019), 839–859.
 [6] Lissette Almonte, Esther Guerra, Iván Cantador, and Juan de Lara. 2022. Recommender systems in model-driven engineering. Software and Systems
     Modeling 21, 1 (01 Feb 2022), 249–280.
 [7] Paul Andrew. 2022. Building a Data Mesh Architecture in Azure series. https://mrpaulandrew.com/2022/01/07/building-a-data-mesh-architecture-
     in-azure-part-3/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [8] Inês Araújo Machado, Carlos Costa, and Maribel Yasmina Santos. 2022. Advancing Data Architectures with Data Mesh Implementations. In
     Intelligent Information Systems, Jochen De Weerdt and Artem Polyvyanyy (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 10–18.
 [9] AWS. 2021. Reference Architecture. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/analytics-lens/data-mesh-reference-architecture.htm
     l[Accessed: March 2023].
[10] Tristan Baker. 2021. Data Movement in Netflix Studio via Data Mesh. https://netflixtechblog.com/data-movement-in-netflix-studio-via-data-mesh-
     3fddcceb1059[Accessed: March 2023].
[11] Tristan Baker. 2021. Intuit’s Data Mesh Strategy. https://medium.com/intuit-engineering/intuits-data-mesh-strategy-778e3edaa017[Accessed:
     March 2023].
[12] Oliver Bauer. 2021. Making a Mesh Start. https://vistaprint.io/blog/making-a-mesh-start[Accessed: March 2023].
[13] Julian Bellendorf and Zoltán Ádám Mann. 2020. Specification of cloud topologies and orchestration using TOSCA: a survey. Computing 102, 8
     (2020), 1793–1815.
[14] Eric Broda. 2022. An Architecture for the Data Mesh. https://towardsdatascience.com/an-architecture-for-the-data-mesh-32ff4a15f16f[Accessed:
     March 2023].
[15] Eric Broda. 2022. Data Mesh Architecture and the Role of APIs and JSON Schemas. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-mesh-architecture-and-
     the-role-of-apis-json-schemas-3dc616650960[Accessed: March 2023].
[16] Eric Broda. 2022. Data Mesh Architecture Patterns. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-mesh-architecture-patterns-98cc1014f251[Accessed:
     March 2023].
[17] Eric Broda. 2022. Data Mesh Patterns: Change Data Capture. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-mesh-pattern-deep-dive-change-data-capture-
     eb3090178c34[Accessed: March 2023].
[18] Eric Broda. 2022. Data Mesh Patterns: Event Streaming Backbone. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-mesh-pattern-deep-dive-event-streaming-
     backbone-99a5bb2a7cbf[Accessed: March 2023].
[19] Seb Bulpin. 2021. Why Data Mesh 101: The Art and Science of Killer Data Discovery. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/why-data-mesh-101-art-
     science-killer-discovery-seb-bulpin/[Accessed: March 2023].
[20] Brendan Burns and David Oppenheimer. 2016. Design Patterns for Container-Based Distributed Systems. In Proceedings of the 8th USENIX
     Conference on Hot Topics in Cloud Computing (Denver, CO) (HotCloud’16). USENIX Association, USA, 108–113.
[21] Bert-Jan Butijn, Damian A. Tamburri, and Willem-Jan Van Den Heuvel. 2020. Blockchains: a Systematic Multivocal Literature Review. ACM
     Computing Surveys (CSUR) 53 (2020), 1–37. Issue 3.
[22] Chris Butler. 2021. People Analytics needs to Support the Enterprise Data Mesh. https://www.onemodel.co/blog/people-analytics-needs-to-support-
     the-enterprise-data-mesh[Accessed: March 2023].
[23] Vijay Kumar Butte and Sujata Butte. 2022. Enterprise Data Strategy: A Decentralized Data Mesh Approach. In 2022 International Conference on
     Data Analytics for Business and Industry (ICDABI). 62–66. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDABI56818.2022.10041672
[24] Vijay Kumar Butte and Sujata Butte. 2022. Enterprise Data Strategy: A Decentralized Data Mesh Approach. In 2022 International Conference on
     Data Analytics for Business and Industry (ICDABI). 62–66.
[25] Andrew Carr. 2021. What Actually is a data mesh? And is it really a thing? https://blog.scottlogic.com/2021/05/28/what-actually-is-a-data-mesh-
     and-is-it-really-a-thing.html [Accessed: March 2023].
[26] Ramaswamy Chandramouli, Zack Butcher, et al. 2020. Building secure microservices-based applications using service-mesh architecture. NIST
     Special Publication 800 (2020), 204A.
[27] Muthu Chinnasamy and Vinod Menon. 2021. Modernize data between siloed data warehouses with Infosys Data Mesh and MongoDB. https:
     //www.mongodb.com/blog/post/modernize-data-between-siloed-data-warehouses-infosys-data-mesh-monogdb [Accessed: March 2023].
[28] Jon Cooke. 2021. Deploying Data Products at the speed of the business. http://dataception.com/Data-Mesh-Deploying-Data-Products-at-the-speed-
     of-the-business.html[Accessed: March 2023].
[29] Justin Cunningham. 2020. Netflix Data Mesh: Composable Data Processing. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TO_IiN06jJ4
[30] Simon Dahdal, Filippo Poltronieri, Mauro Tortonesi, Cesare Stefanelli, and Niranjan Suri. 2023. A Data Mesh Approach for Enabling Data-
     Centric Applications at the Tactical Edge. In 2023 International Conference on Military Communications and Information Systems (ICMCIS). 1–9.
                                                                                                                     Manuscript submitted to ACM
30                                                                                                                          Abel and Indika, et al.


      https://doi.org/10.1109/ICMCIS59922.2023.10253568
 [31] Kenneth Dalvik. 2020. SAP Data Warehouse + Data Mesh = True. https://blogs.sap.com/2020/10/22/sap-data-warehouse-cloud-data-mesh-
      true/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [32] Kjersti Berg Danilova. 2019. Process owners in business process management: a systematic literature review. Business Process Management Journal
      25, 6 (2019), 1377–1412.
 [33] Devayon Das. 2020. Data Mesh: How to Overcome Data Lake Challenges. https://www.zaloni.com/resources/data- mesh- data- lake-
      challenges/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [34] Elizabeth Davidson, Lauri Wessel, Jenifer Sunrise Winter, and Susan Winter. 2023. Future directions for scholarship on data governance, digital
      innovation, and grand challenges. Information and Organization 33, 1 (2023), 100454. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1471772
      723000088
 [35] Ali Davoudian and Mengchi Liu. 2020. Big Data Systems: A Software Engineering Perspective. ACM Comput. Surv. 53, 5, Article 110 (sep 2020),
      39 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3408314
 [36] Zhamak Dehghani. 2019. Data Mesh with Zhamak Dehghani. https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2019/07/29/data-mesh-with-zhamak-
      deghani/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [37] Zhamak Dehghani. 2019. How to Move Beyond a Monolithic Data Lake to a Distributed Data Mesh. https://martinfowler.com/articles/data-
      monolith-to-mesh.html [Accessed: March 2023].
 [38] Zhamak Dehghani. 2021. Data Mesh: An Architectural Deep Dive. https://www.infoq.com/presentations/data-mesh-concepts/[Accessed: March
      2023].
 [39] Zhamak Dehghani. 2021. Data Mesh: Defining a new data architecture paradigm with Zhamak Dehghani. https://www.torocloud.com/podcast/defin
      ing-data-mesh-zhamak-dehghani/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [40] Z Dehghani. 2022. Data Mesh: Delivering Data-Driven Value at Scale. O’Reilly Media, Inc.
 [41] Zhamak Dehghani. 2022. Data Mesh Principles and Logical Architecture. https://martinfowler.com/articles/data-mesh-principles.html [Accessed:
      March 2023].
 [42] Heather Devane. 2021. What is a Data Mesh? https://www.immuta.com/articles/what-is-a-data-mesh/ [Accessed: March 2023].
 [43] Chris Dowsett. 2021. Using Microservices to Build and Scale Data Functions. https://towardsdatascience.com/using-microservices-to-build-and-
      scale-data-functions-28d47f400419[Accessed: March 2023].
 [44] S.W. Driessen, G. Monsieur, and W. Van Den Heuvel. 2022. Data Market Design: A Systematic Literature Review. IEEE Access 10 (2022), 1–1.
 [45] Schahram Dustdar, Reinhard Pichler, Vadim Savenkov, and Hong-Linh Truong. 2012. Quality-aware service-oriented data integration: requirements,
      state of the art and open challenges. ACM SIGMOD Record 41, 1 (2012), 11–19.
 [46] Christof Ebert, Gorka Gallardo, Josune Hernantes, and Nicolas Serrano. 2016. DevOps. Ieee Software 33, 3 (2016), 94–100.
 [47] ELEKS. 2021. Data mesh: The Four Principles of a Distributed Architecture. https://medium.datadriveninvestor.com/data-mesh-the-four-principles-
      of-a-distributed-architecture-59514eba1e52 [Accessed: March 2023].
 [48] Dodo Engineering. 2021. Data mesh: how to work with data without a monolith. https://prog.world/data-mesh-how-to-work-with-data-without-a-
      monolith/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [49] Spark Equation. 2021. What you need to know about data mesh. https://sparkequation.com/2021/02/24/data-mesh/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [50] Vanessa Ericsson. 2021. Data Mesh Strategy and Architecture. https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Xi-Ri_6HrjBtCHssmi2E4XvXqEK25anV/vi
      ew[Accessed: March 2023].
 [51] Eric Evans and Eric J Evans. 2004. Domain-driven design: tackling complexity in the heart of software. Addison-Wesley Professional.
 [52] Chloe Feingold. 2021. Why Governance is the Critical Stitch in Data Mesh (and How to Avoid “Meshing” it Up). https://blog.privacera.com/why-
      governance-is-the-critical-stitch-in-data-mesh-and-how-to-avoid-meshing-it-up-ade91a896ae5[Accessed: March 2023].
 [53] Neal Ford, Rebecca Parsons, Patrick Kua, and Pramod Sadalage. 2022. Building Evolutionary Architectures. " O’Reilly Media, Inc.".
 [54] Martin Fowler. 2012. Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture: Pattern Enterpr Applica Arch. Addison-Wesley.
 [55] Bhavesh Furia. 2021. Data Mesh - Rethinking Enterprise Data Architecture. https://www.cuelogic.com/blog/data-mesh [Accessed: March 2023].
 [56] Vahid Garousi, Michael Felderer, and Mika V. Mäntylä. 2019. Guidelines for including grey literature and conducting multivocal literature reviews in
      software engineering. Information and Software Technology 106 (2019), 101–121. Issue September 2018. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2018.09.006
 [57] Marko Gasparic and Andrea Janes. 2016. What recommendation systems for software engineering recommend: A systematic literature review.
      Journal of Systems and Software 113 (2016), 101–113.
 [58] Chandan Gaur. 2021. Complete overview of data mesh and its benefits. https://www.xenonstack.com/blog/data-mesh[Accessed: March 2023].
 [59] Mahdi Fahmideh Gholami, Farhad Daneshgar, Graham Low, and Ghassan Beydoun. 2016. Cloud migration process—A survey, evaluation framework,
      and open challenges. Journal of Systems and Software 120 (2016), 31–69.
 [60] Corinna Giebler, Christoph Gröger, Eva Hoos, Holger Schwarz, and Bernhard Mitschang. 2019. Leveraging the Data Lake: Current State and
      Challenges. In Big Data Analytics and Knowledge Discovery, Carlos Ordonez, Il-Yeol Song, Gabriele Anderst-Kotsis, A Min Tjoa, and Ismail Khalil
      (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 179–188.
 [61] Paul Gillin. 2021. Data Warehousing has problems. A data mesh could be the solution. https://siliconangle.com/2021/08/06/data-warehousing-
      problems-data-mesh-solution/ [Accessed: March 2023].


Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                                                         31


[62] Jason Gilmore. 2019. Easier Data Marts with DreamFactory Data Mesh. https://blog.dreamfactory.com/easier-data-marts-with-dreamfactory-data-
     mesh/[Accessed: March 2023].
[63] Joe Gleinser. 2021. Should Your Application Consider Data Mesh Connectivity? https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2020/05/07/should-
     your-application-consider-data-mesh-connectivity/?sh=5ab427756d7f[Accessed: March 2023].
[64] Mathias golombek. 2021. Data Mesh in Practice: Learnings from a customer journey. https://www.dataversity.net/data-mesh-in-practice-learnings-
     from-a-customer-journey/ [Accessed: March 2023].
[65] Adam Gugliciello. 2021. The Journey to an Enterprise Data Mesh. https://blog.dataiku.com/the-journey-to-an-enterprise-data-mesh [Accessed:
     March 2023].
[66] Muhammad Hafiz Hasan, Mohd Hafeez Osman, Novia Indriaty Admodisastro, and Muhamad Sufri Muhammad. 2023. Legacy systems to cloud
     migration: A review from the architectural perspective. Journal of Systems and Software 202 (2023), 111702. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2023.111
     702
[67] Trey Hicks. 2021. Catching Data in a Data Mesh: Principles (part I). https://medium.com/nerd-for-tech/catching-data-in-a-data-mesh-principles-
     part-i-2b2e11e9e33a [Accessed: March 2023].
[68] Y. Hooshmand, J. Resch, P. Wischnewski, and P. Patil. 2022. From a Monolithic PLM Landscape to a Federated Domain and Data Mesh. Proceedings
     of the Design Society 2 (2022), 713–722.
[69] Marijn Janssen, Paul Brous, Elsa Estevez, Luis S. Barbosa, and Tomasz Janowski. 2020. Data governance: Organizing data for trustworthy Artificial
     Intelligence. Government Information Quarterly 37, 3 (2020), 101493.
[70] Can Yurtseven Jarvin Mutatiina and Ernst Blaauw. 2020. From data mess to a data mesh. https://www2.deloitte.com/nl/nl/pages/strategy-analytics-
     and-ma/articles/from-data-mess-to-a-data-mesh.html [Accessed: March 2023].
[71] Larysa Vsiengeriyeva Jochen Christ and Simon Harrer. 2022. Data Mesh Architecture from an Engineering Perspective. https://www.datamesh-
     architecture.com/[Accessed: March 2023].
[72] JPMorgan. 2021. Evolution of Data Mesh Architecture Can Drive Significant Value in Modern Enterprise. https://www.jpmorgan.com/technology/te
     chnology-blog/evolution-of-data-mesh-architecture [Accessed: March 2023].
[73] Kainos. 2021. 6 Questions to ask before implementing data mesh. https://www.kainos.com/insights/blogs/thinking-about-data-mesh [Accessed:
     March 2023].
[74] Keboola. 2021. Data mesh - the answer to the failures of centralized data architectures. https://www.keboola.com/blog/data-mesh [Accessed: March
     2023].
[75] Staffs Keele et al. 2007. Guidelines for performing systematic literature reviews in software engineering. (2007).
[76] KPMG. 2021. Data mesh for hybrid cloud. https://www.kpmg.us/alliances/kpmg-ibm/data-mesh-hybrid-cloud.html[Accessed: March 2023].
[77] Tim Kraska, Tianyu Li, Samuel Madden, Markos Markakis, Amadou Ngom, Ziniu Wu, and Geoffrey X. Yu. 2023. Check Out the Big Brain
     on BRAD: Simplifying Cloud Data Processing with Learned Automated Data Meshes. Proc. VLDB Endow. 16, 11 (jul 2023), 3293–3301.
     https://doi.org/10.14778/3611479.3611526
[78] Saurabh Kumar. 2022. Deconstructing Data Mesh Principles. https://medium.com/slalom-data-ai/data-mesh-232e50f42e66[Accessed: March 2023].
[79] Indika Kumara, Martín Garriga, Angel Urbano Romeu, Dario Di Nucci, Fabio Palomba, Damian Andrew Tamburri, and Willem-Jan van den Heuvel.
     2021. The do’s and don’ts of infrastructure code: A systematic gray literature review. Information and Software Technology 137 (2021), 106593.
[80] Indika Kumara, Jun Han, Alan Colman, and Malinda Kapuruge. 2017. Software-Defined Service Networking: Performance Differentiation in Shared
     Multi-Tenant Cloud Applications. IEEE Transactions on Services Computing 10, 1 (2017), 9–22.
[81] Martin Lam. 2021. Why Snowflake is a good match for implementing Data Mesh. https://www.capgemini.com/no-no/2021/05/why-snowflake-is-a-
     good-match-for-implementing-data-mesh/ [Accessed: March 2023].
[82] Christian Lennerholt, Joeri Van Laere, and Eva Söderström. 2018. Implementation challenges of self service business intelligence: A literature review.
     (2018), 5055–5063.
[83] Kevin Lewis. 2021. Data Mesh and the Threads that Hold it together. https://www.teradata.com/Blogs/Data-Mesh-and-the-Threads-that-Hold-it-
     Together[Accessed: March 2023].
[84] Jin Li, Shixia Cai, Lei Wang, Mingyang Li, Jiamao Li, and Hui Tu. 2022. A novel design for Data Processing Framework of Park-level Power System
     with Data Mesh concept. In 2022 IEEE International Conference on Energy Internet (ICEI). 153–158. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICEI57064.2022.00032
[85] Wubin Li, Yves Lemieux, Jing Gao, Zhuofeng Zhao, and Yanbo Han. 2019. Service mesh: Challenges, state of the art, and future research
     opportunities. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Service-Oriented System Engineering (SOSE). IEEE, 122–1225.
[86] Rufus Lidman. 2021. The Contingency Model of Data Mesh. https://towardsdatascience.com/the- contingency- model- of- data- mesh-
     c4bbe57577d6[Accessed: March 2023].
[87] Advancing Analytics Limited. 2021. Data Mesh Deep Dive. https://www.advancinganalytics.co.uk/blog/2021/8/5/data-mesh-deep-dive[Accessed:
     March 2023].
[88] Antti Loukiala, Juha-Pekka Joutsenlahti, Mikko Raatikainen, Tommi Mikkonen, and Timo Lehtonen. 2021. Migrating from a Centralized Data
     Warehouse to a Decentralized Data Platform Architecture. In Product-Focused Software Process Improvement, Luca Ardito, Andreas Jedlitschka,
     Maurizio Morisio, and Marco Torchiano (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 36–48.
[89] Inês Machado, Carlos Costa, and Maribel Yasmina Santos. 2021. Data-driven information systems: the data mesh paradigm shift. (2021).


                                                                                                                           Manuscript submitted to ACM
32                                                                                                                       Abel and Indika, et al.


 [90] Inês Araújo Machado, Carlos Costa, and Maribel Yasmina Santos. 2022. Data Mesh: Concepts and Principles of a Paradigm Shift in Data
      Architectures. Procedia Computer Science 196 (2022), 263–271.
 [91] Anil Madan. 2021. Modern Data Platform - How to build one? https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/modern-data-platform-how-build-one-anil-
      madan/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [92] Mansi Maharana. 2021. Implementing Data-as-a-Product(DaaP) using distributed data architecture and Smart Data Platform on GCP. https:
      //medium.com/google- cloud/implementing- data- as- a- product- daap- using- distributed- data- architecture- and- smart- data- platform- on-
      c2fcd64c67d5[Accessed: March 2023].
 [93] Valdas Maksimavicius. 2021. Launching Databricks at Lf. https://medium.com/if-tech/launching-databricks-at-if-819be388aa8a[Accessed: March
      2023].
 [94] Schultze Max and Wider Arif. 2020. Data mesh in practice: how Europe’s leading online platform for fashion goes beyond the data lake.
      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eiUhV56uVUc
 [95] Alexis McKenzie. 2021. A data mesh approach to data warehousing. https://towardsdatascience.com/a-data-mesh-approach-to-data-warehousing-
      cd71e55490ba[Accessed: March 2023].
 [96] Matt McLarty. 2021. How does API management mesh with, um, data mesh. https://blogs.mulesoft.com/api-integration/api-management-and-data-
      mesh/[Accessed: March 2023].
 [97] Jesse Menning. 2021. Use an Event-Driven Data Mesh to Avoid Drowning in the (Data) Lake. https://solace.com/blog/event-driven-data-mesh/
      [Accessed: March 2023].
 [98] Ralph Mietzner and Frank Leymann. 2010. A self-service portal for service-based applications. In 2010 IEEE International Conference on
      Service-Oriented Computing and Applications (SOCA). 1–8.
 [99] Pawel Mitrus. 2021. Data Mesh Explained. An End-to-End Guide to the Latest Data Architecture Trend. https://lingarogroup.com/blog/data-mesh-
      explained-an-end-to-end-guide-to-the-latest-data-architecture-trend [Accessed: March 2023].
[100] Adit Modi. 2021. Introduction to data mesh. https://dev.to/aws-builders/introduction-to-data-mesh-3f1b[Accessed: March 2023].
[101] Kief Morris. 2020. Infrastructure as Code, 2nd Edition. O’Reilly Media, Inc.
[102] Barr Moses. 2020. What is a Data Mesh - and How Not to Mesh it Up. https://towardsdatascience.com/what-is-a-data-mesh-and-how-not-to-mesh-
      it-up-210710bb41e0 [Accessed: March 2023].
[103] Barr Moses. 2021. Data Mesh 101: how to get started. https://www.montecarlodata.com/blog-data-mesh-101-everything-you-need-to-know-to-get-
      started/[Accessed: March 2023].
[104] Barr Moses. 2022. How to treat your data like a product.        https://towardsdatascience.com/how- to- treat- your- data- like- a- product-
      73731ec5f131[Accessed: March 2023].
[105] Aiswarya Raj Munappy, David Issa Mattos, Jan Bosch, Helena Holmström Olsson, and Anas Dakkak. 2020. From Ad-Hoc Data Analytics to
      DataOps. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Software and System Processes (Seoul, Republic of Korea) (ICSSP ’20). Association for
      Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 165–174.
[106] Le Duy Ngan and Rajaraman Kanagasabai. 2013. Semantic Web service discovery: state-of-the-art and research challenges. Personal and Ubiquitous
      Computing 17, 8 (01 Dec 2013), 1741–1752.
[107] Francois Nguyen. 2021. Towards a data mesh (part 2): Architecture and Technologies. https://francois-nguyen.blog/2021/03/22/toward-a-data-
      mesh-part-2-architecture-technologies/[Accessed: March 2023].
[108] Zach Mitchell Nivas Shankar, Ian Meyers and Roy Hasson. 2021. Design a data mesh architecture using AWS Lake Formation and AWS Glue.
      https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/big-data/design-a-data-mesh-architecture-using-aws-lake-formation-and-aws-glue/ [Accessed: March 2023].
[109] Abraham Enyo one Musa. 2020. Data Management Architectures — Monolithic Data Architectures vs. Distributed Data Mesh.                     https:
      //towardsdatascience.com/data-management-architectures-monolithic-data-architectures-and-distributed-data-mesh-63743794966c[Accessed:
      March 2023].
[110] Gerben Oostra. 2021. Data Mesh explanation.          https://medium.com/bigdatarepublic/two- steps- towards- a- modern- data- platform-
      37c74e7c104b[Accessed: March 2023].
[111] Gerben Oostra. 2021. Two steps towards a modern data platform. https://medium.com/bigdatarepublic/two-steps-towards-a-modern-data-platform-
      37c74e7c104b[Accessed: March 2023].
[112] Oracle. 2021. Enterprise Data Mesh. https://www.oracle.com/a/ocom/docs/datamesh-ebook.pdf [Accessed: March 2023].
[113] Oracle. 2021. Technology Brief: Dynamic Data Fabric and Trusted Data Mesh using the Oracle GoldenGate Platform. https://www.oracle.com/a/oco
      m/docs/techbrief-enterprisedatameshandgoldengate.pdf[Accessed: March 2023].
[114] Einat Orr. 2020. Data Mesh Applied: How to move beyond the Data Lake with lakeFS. https://lakefs.io/data-mesh-applied-how-to-move-beyond-
      the-data-lake-with-lakefs/[Accessed: March 2023].
[115] Patryk Orwat. 2021. Data Mesh on AWS. https://dev.to/aws-builders/data-mesh-on-aws-57ah[Accessed: March 2023].
[116] Michael Papazoglou. 2008. Web services: principles and technology. Pearson Education.
[117] Michael P. Papazoglou, Paolo Traverso, Schahram Dustdar, and Frank Leymann. 2007. Service-Oriented Computing: State of the Art and Research
      Challenges. Computer 40, 11 (2007), 38–45.
[118] Mike P Papazoglou and Willem-Jan Van Den Heuvel. 2007. Service oriented architectures: approaches, technologies and research issues. The VLDB
      journal 16, 3 (2007), 389–415.
Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                                                      33


[119] Courtney Perio. 2022. Get More out of your data analytics microservices. https://towardsdatascience.com/get-more-out-of-your-data-with-
      analytics-microservices-9a5a34a3ad2f[Accessed: March 2023].
[120] Yval Perlov. 2021. Data Mesh: Architecture, Use Cases, and Implementation via Data Fabric. https://www.k2view.com/blog/data-mesh/ [Accessed:
      March 2023].
[121] Paolo Platter. 2021. How and why data mesh is shaping the data management evolution. https://medium.com/agile-lab-engineering/yet-another-
      datamesh-article-83378b62f334[Accessed: March 2023].
[122] Paolo Platter. 2021. How to identify Data Products? Welcome "Data Product Flow". https://medium.com/agile-lab-engineering/how-to-identify-
      data-products-welcome-data-product-flow-76d7d85d23af[Accessed: March 2023].
[123] Nikolai J Podlesny, Anne VDM Kayem, and Christoph Meinel. 2022. Cok: A survey of privacy challenges in relation to data meshes. In International
      Conference on Database and Expert Systems Applications. Springer, 85–102.
[124] Jeffrey Pollock. 2021. Data Mesh is not a Data Lake! https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/data-mesh-lake-jeffrey-t-pollock/ [Accessed: March 2023].
[125] Taavi Pungas. 2021. Dodging the data bottleneck — data mesh at Starship. https://medium.com/starshiptechnologies/dodging-the-data-bottleneck-
      data-mesh-at-starship-5925a2de45e6[Accessed: March 2023].
[126] Ilan Raab and Marco Chiapusso. 2021. How to create a modern CPG Data Architecture with Data Mesh. https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/industries/how-
      to-create-a-modern-cpg-data-architecture-with-data-mesh/[Accessed: March 2023].
[127] Rajesh Rajagopalan. 2021. Demystifying Data Mesh. https://www.peerislands.io/demystifying-data-mesh/[Accessed: March 2023].
[128] Asha Rajbhoj, Akanksha Somase, Piyush Kulkarni, and Vinay Kulkarni. 2024. Accelerating Software Development Using Generative AI: ChatGPT
      Case Study. In Proceedings of the 17th Innovations in Software Engineering Conference (India) (ISEC ’24). Association for Computing Machinery,
      New York, NY, USA, Article 5, 11 pages.
[129] Karthik Ramachandran. 2020. Data management barriers to AI success. https://www2.deloitte.com/xe/en/insights/industry/technology/ai-and-data-
      management.html
[130] Javier Ramos. 2021. Building a Data Mesh: A Beginners Guide. https://itnext.io/introduction-to-data-mesh-59e6f3a4c15e[Accessed: March 2023].
[131] Javier Ramos. 2022. What is a data product? https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/scenarios/cloud-scale-
      analytics/architectures/what-is-data-product[Accessed: March 2023].
[132] Fernando Raposo. 2021. The Evolution of FindHotel’s Data Architecture - Part I. https://blog.findhotel.net/2021/07/the-evolution-of-findhotels-
      data-architecture-part-i/[Accessed: March 2023].
[133] Azaz Rasool. 2021. Are data warehouses/ Data lakes dying or need a fresh perspective? https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/datamesh-paradigm-shift-
      data-warehouses-lakes-dying-azaz-rasool/[Accessed: March 2023].
[134] James Reid. 2021. Implementing a Data Mesh Architecture at JPMC. https://www.dremio.com/subsurface/implementing-a-data-mesh-architecture-
      at-jpmc/[Accessed: March 2023].
[135] Chris Riccomini. 2021. What the Heck is a Data Mesh?! https://cnr.sh/essays/what-the-heck-data-mesh [Accessed: March 2023].
[136] Aleksi Roima. 2021. When should organizations consider data mesh? https://futurice.com/blog/when-should-organizations-consider-data-mesh
      [Accessed: March 2023].
[137] David Reinsel-John Gantz-John Rydning, J Reinsel, and J Gantz. 2018. The digitization of the world from edge to core. Framingham: International
      Data Corporation 16 (2018).
[138] Marcelo Iury S. Oliveira, Glória de Fátima Barros Lima, and Bernadette Farias Lóscio. 2019. Investigations into data ecosystems: a systematic
      mapping study. Knowledge and Information Systems 61 (2019), 589–630.
[139] Frank E Saal, Ronald G Downey, and Mary A Lahey. 1980. Rating the ratings: Assessing the psychometric quality of rating data. Psychological
      bulletin 88, 2 (1980), 413.
[140] Johnny Saldaña. 2021. The coding manual for qualitative researchers. sage.
[141] Saket Saurabh. 2021. Data Mesh: Desing, Benefits, Hype, and Reality. https://www.nexla.com/data-mesh-design-benefits-hype-reality/[Accessed:
      March 2023].
[142] Max Schultze and Arif Wider. 2020. Data Mesh in Practice. https://www.iteblog.com/ppt/sparkaisummit-north-america-2020-iteblog/data-mesh-in-
      practice-how-europes-leading-online-platform-for-fashion-goes-beyond-the-data-lake-iteblog.com.pdf[Accessed: March 2023].
[143] Max Schultze and Arif Wider. 2020. Data Mesh in Practice: How Europe’s Leading Online Platform for Fashion Goes Beyond the Data Lake.
      https://databricks.com/session_na20/data-mesh-in-practice-how-europes-leading-online-platform-for-fashion-goes-beyond-the-data-lake
      [Accessed: March 2023].
[144] Juan Sequeda. 2021. What is the deal with the Data Mesh? http://www.juansequeda.com/blog/2021/02/22/what-is-the-deal-with-the-data-
      mesh/[Accessed: March 2023].
[145] James Serra. 2021. Data Mesh defined. {https://www.jamesserra.com/archive/2021/02/data-mesh/}[Accessed:March2023].
[146] Nazia Shahrin. 2021. Building a successful Data Mesh – More than just a technology initiative. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/building-successful-
      data-mesh-more-than-just-nazia-shahrin/[Accessed: March 2023].
[147] Quan Z. Sheng, Xiaoqiang Qiao, Athanasios V. Vasilakos, Claudia Szabo, Scott Bourne, and Xiaofei Xu. 2014. Web services composition: A decade’s
      overview. Information Sciences 280 (2014), 218–238.
[148] Harcharan Jit Singh and Seema Bawa. 2018. Scalable Metadata Management Techniques for Ultra-Large Distributed Storage Systems – A Systematic
      Review. ACM Comput. Surv. 51, 4, Article 82 (jul 2018), 37 pages.
                                                                                                                         Manuscript submitted to ACM
34                                                                                                                          Abel and Indika, et al.


[149] Apitchaka Singjai, Uwe Zdun, and Olaf Zimmermann. 2021. Practitioner Views on the Interrelation of Microservice APIs and Domain-Driven
      Design: A Grey Literature Study Based on Grounded Theory. In 2021 IEEE 18th International Conference on Software Architecture (ICSA). 25–35.
[150] Snowflake. 2021. Empower Data Teams with a Data Mesh Built on Snowflake. https://www.snowflake.com/blog/empower-data-teams-with-a-data-
      mesh-built-on-snowflake/[Accessed: March 2023].
[151] Graham Stirling. 2021. Saxo Bank’s Best Practices for a Distributed Domain-Driven Architecture Founded on the Data Mesh. https://www.confluent.
      io/blog/distributed-domain-driven-architecture-data-mesh-best-practices/[Accessed: March 2023].
[152] Michael Stonebraker, Ihab F Ilyas, et al. 2018. Data Integration: The Current Status and the Way Forward. IEEE Data Eng. Bull. 41, 2 (2018), 3–9.
[153] Anselm Straus and Juliet Corbin. 2014. Basics of qualitative research: Grounded theory procedures and techniques.
[154] Piethein Strengholt. 2020. ABN Amro’s data and integration mesh. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/abn-amros-data-integration-mesh-piethein-
      strengholt/[Accessed: March 2023].
[155] Piethein Strengholt. 2021. Data Mesh topologies. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-mesh-topologies-85f4cad14bf2[Accessed: March 2023].
[156] Piethein Strengholt. 2022. Data Contracts - ensure robustness in your data mesh architecture. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-contracts-ensure-
      robustness-in-your-data-mesh-architecture-69a3c38f07db[Accessed: March 2023].
[157] Piethein Strengholt. 2022. Data Domains - Where do I start? https://towardsdatascience.com/data-domains-where-do-i-start-a6d52fef95d1[Accessed:
      March 2023].
[158] Piethein Strengholt. 2022. Data Domains and Data Products. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-domains-and-data-products-64cc9d2828
      3e[Accessed: March 2023].
[159] Piethein Strengholt. 2022. Data Mesh: The Balancing Act of Centralization and Decentralization. https://towardsdatascience.com/data-mesh-the-
      balancing-act-of-centralization-and-decentralization-f5dc0bb54bcf[Accessed: March 2023].
[160] Piethein Strengholt. 2022. Implementing Data Mesh on Azure. https://towardsdatascience.com/implementing- data- mesh- on- azure-
      c01ee94306cd[Accessed: March 2023].
[161] Piethein Strengholt. 2022. Master Data Management in Data Mesh. https://towardsdatascience.com/master-data-management-in-data-mesh-
      594d21f3ee10[Accessed: March 2023].
[162] Piethein Strenholt and Andrea Courtright. 2022. A financial institution scenario for data mesh. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-
      adoption-framework/scenarios/data-management/architectures/reference-architecture-data-mesh[Accessed: March 2023].
[163] Firat Tekiner. 2021. Building a unified analytics data platform on Google Cloud. https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/building-
      unified-analytics-data-platform-google-cloud[Accessed: March 2023].
[164] Meenakshisundaram Thandavarayan. 2021. What is Data Mesh (and who should be using it). https://dataintegration.info/what-is-data-mesh-and-
      who-should-be-using-it [Accessed: March 2023].
[165] Thoughtworks. 2020. Data Mesh Whitepaper: The Data Mesh Shift. https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/whitepapers/the-data-mesh-
      shift[Accessed: March 2023].
[166] Thoughtworks. 2021. Data Mesh for Trusted Public Sector Data Sharing in Singapore. https://www.thoughtworks.com/content/dam/thoughtworks/
      documents/whitepaper/whitepaper-tw-102021-ebook-data-mesh-singapore.pdf[Accessed: March 2023].
[167] Davide Tosi and Sandro Morasca. 2015. Supporting the semi-automatic semantic annotation of web services: A systematic literature review.
      Information and Software Technology 61 (2015), 16–32.
[168] Hong-Linh Truong and Tri-Minh Nguyen. 2021. QoA4ML-A Framework for Supporting Contracts in Machine Learning Services. In 2021 IEEE
      International Conference on Web Services (ICWS). IEEE, 465–475.
[169] Sandeep Uttamachandani. 2022. The Google Technology Landscape for a Self-Service Data Platform. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/landscape-
      technologies-self-service-data-platform-sandeep [Accessed: March 2023].
[170] Dave Velante. 2021. A new era of data: a deep look at how JPMorgan Chas runs a data mesh on the AWS cloud. https://siliconangle.com/2021/07/1
      0/new-era-data-deep-look-jpmorgan-chase-runs-data-mesh-aws-cloud/[Accessed: March 2023].
[171] David Vellante. 2021. Breaking Analysis: How JP Morgan is Implementing a Data Mesh on the AWS Cloud. https://wikibon.com/breaking-analysis-
      how-jp-morgan-is-implementing-a-data-mesh-on-the-aws-cloud/ [Accessed: March 2023].
[172] Padmal Vitharana and Shahir A. Daya. 2024. Adopting and Sustaining Microservice-based Software Development: Organizational challenges can be
      more difficult than technical ones. Commun. ACM (mar 2024), 9 pages.
[173] Stephen John Warnett and Uwe Zdun. 2022. Architectural Design Decisions for Machine Learning Deployment. In 2022 IEEE 19th International
      Conference on Software Architecture (ICSA). 90–100.
[174] Yi Wei and M. Brian Blake. 2010. Service-Oriented Computing and Cloud Computing: Challenges and Opportunities. IEEE Internet Computing 14,
      6 (2010), 72–75.
[175] Dave Wells. 2021. Data Architecture: Complex vs. Complicated.             https://www.eckerson.com/articles/data- architecture- complex- vs-
      complicated[Accessed: March 2023].
[176] Claes Wohlin, Per Runeson, Martin Höst, Magnus C Ohlsson, Björn Regnell, and Anders Wesslén. 2012. Experimentation in software engineering.
      Springer Science & Business Media.
[177] Tom De Wolf. 2022. Applying Data Mesh principles to an IoT data architecture. https://www.acagroup.be/en/blog/applying-data-mesh-principles-
      to-an-iot-data-architecture/[Accessed: March 2023].


Manuscript submitted to ACM
Data Mesh: A Systematic Gray Literature Review                                                                                                 35


[178] Olivier Wulveryck. 2021. POV: A streaming/communication platform for the data mesh. https://blog.octo.com/en/pov-a-streaming-communication-
      platform-for-the-data-mesh/ [Accessed: March 2023].
[179] Frank F. Xu, Bogdan Vasilescu, and Graham Neubig. 2022. In-IDE Code Generation from Natural Language: Promise and Challenges. ACM Trans.
      Softw. Eng. Methodol. 31, 2, Article 29 (mar 2022), 47 pages.
[180] Doichin Yordanov. 2021. Data Mesh, the new data paradigm set to rise. https://helecloud.com/blog/data-mesh-the-new-data-paradigm-set-to-rise/
      [Accessed: March 2023].
[181] Ammar Zeini, Ruth G. Lennon, and Patrick Lennon. 2023. Preliminary Investigation into a Security Approach for Infrastructure as Code. In
      Proceedings of Eighth International Congress on Information and Communication Technology. Springer Nature Singapore, Singapore, 763–783.
[182] Kun Zhang, Jiali Zeng, Fandong Meng, Yuanzhuo Wang, Shiqi Sun, Long Bai, Huawei Shen, and Jie Zhou. 2024. Tree-of-Reasoning Question
      Decomposition for Complex Question Answering with Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
      Vol. 38. 19560–19568.
[183] Chenxing Zhong, Shanshan Li, Huang Huang, Xiaodong Liu, Zhikun Chen, Yi Zhang, and He Zhang. 2024. Domain-Driven Design for Microservices:
      An Evidence-based Investigation. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (2024), 1–25.




                                                                                                                     Manuscript submitted to ACM
