                                                                                                NeurIPS 2020 Competition and Demonstration Track




                                                                 xLP: Explainable Link Prediction
                                                                  for Master Data Management

                                         Balaji Ganesan                                                               bganesa1@in.ibm.com
                                         Sumit Bhatia                                                              sumitbhatia@in.ibm.com
                                         Hima Patel                                                                  himapatel@in.ibm.com
                                         Sameep Mehta                                                             sameepmehta@in.ibm.com
                                         IBM Research, India




arXiv:2403.09806v1 [cs.AI] 14 Mar 2024
                                         Matheen Ahmed Pasha                                                         matpasha@in.ibm.com
                                         Srinivasa Parkala                                                            shsriniv@in.ibm.com
                                         Neeraj R Singh                                                               sneeraj@in.ibm.com
                                         Gayatri Mishra                                                              gayamish@in.ibm.com
                                         Somashekhar Naganna                                                      soma.shekar@in.ibm.com
                                         IBM Data and AI, India


                                                                                      Abstract
                                              Explaining neural model predictions to users requires creativity. Especially in enterprise
                                              applications, where there are costs associated with users’ time, and their trust in the model
                                              predictions is critical for adoption. For link prediction in master data management, we
                                              have built a number of explainability solutions drawing from research in interpretability,
                                              fact verification, path ranking, neuro-symbolic reasoning and self-explaining AI. In this
                                              demo, we present explanations for link prediction in a creative way, to allow users to
                                              choose explanations they are more comfortable with.
                                              Keywords: Link Prediction, Graph Neural Networks, Explainability


                                         1 Introduction
                                         Link prediction using Graph Neural Networks (GNN) is a well researched problem. How-
                                         ever, there remain a number of challenges in using GNN models in enterprise applications.
                                         Especially when the nodes of the graphs are people or organizations who are customers of
                                         an enterprise, the links are real world relationships, and the applications are sensitive like
                                         customer due diligence, anti-money laundering, and law enforcement. In Ganesan et al.
                                         (2020), we discussed ethical considerations and practical insights from developing a link
                                         prediction solution for IBM’s Infosphere Master Data Management (MDM) product.
                                             MDM users include data engineers who work on ETL, data stewards who help cus-
                                         tomers with managing Master Data, and data scientists who use MDM for analytics. Their
                                         expectations from a explainability solution are different. While some might be interested in
                                         model interpretability, others might want a quick and easy to understand solution, to get
                                         the job done. In this demo, we compare three explainability techniques for Link Prediction.

                                             • Interpretable models that approximate neural model predictions.

                                             • Link verification where external information corroborates the predictions.

                                             • Path ranking algorithms that were earlier used for error detection.

                                         ©2022 Balaji Ganesan et al.
         xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




    While evaluating the explanations, the hypothesis is that users who have seen neural
model predictions and explanations, should later be able to guess what the neural model
will predict on unseen data.
    One approach to selecting an explanation from the above choices, involves pre-selecting
some explanations suitable for the audience. Few such demos, where we tailored the expla-
nations to the users, led us to design a case-study using an interactive user interface. Our
goal here is to understand user preferences towards different types of explanations, their
ability to understand the models, and also validate what constitutes an human understand-
able explanation.




Figure 1: Predicting links to watch-list nodes. A list of COVID19 persons can be uploaded
          as watch-list and their links to people in a master data could be predicted.


    Master Data Management includes tasks like entity matching, link prediction, non-
obvious relation extraction among other things. Typically the entities in master data are
people, organizations and location. Though products, events and other entities can be
stored too. While this master data is predominantly stored as relational data, graph stores
are widely used for visualization and analytics. In this work, we focus on link prediction.
Graphs in MDM could be considered as property graphs which differ from knowledge graphs
and social networks. In particular, MDM graphs often are homogenous attributed graphs
where one of people, organization, or location constitute nodes in the graph. Other entities
like numerical ids, demographic information, business terms constitute the attributes of
the nodes. Links between people or organizations in the real world constitute the edges
of the graph. The type of people to people relations form the link type and details of the
relationship like duration constitute the edge properties.
    Link Prediction on people graphs presents a unique set of challenges in terms of model
performance, data availability, fairness, privacy, and data protection. Further, Link Pre-
diction among people has a number of societal implications irrespective of the use-cases.
While link prediction of financial fraud detection, law enforcement, and advertisement go
through ethical scrutiny, the recent use of social networks for political targeting and job
opportunities also require ethical awareness on the part of the model developers and system
designers.

                                             2
          xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




    Watchlist is a use-case typical in Master Data Management. Given a set of nodes in
a graph, the task is to find links to Watchlist nodes from other nodes of the graph. For
example, we can assume people who have tested positive for COVID19 as people on a
Watchlist. We may want to find people who may have potentially come in contact with
them, commonly known as contact tracing. This can however be a time consuming and
potentially controversial process that impacts privacy. We need informed consent of people
for this contact tracing. In this work we discuss link prediction on property graphs involving
people, their specific dataset requirements, ethical considerations, and practical insights in
designing the infrastructure for industrial scale deployment.

2 Related Work
Schlichtkrull et al. (2018) showed that a Relational Graph Convolutional Network can out-
perform direct optimization of the factorization (ex: DistMult). They used an autoencoder
model consisting of an encoder – an R-GCN producing latent feature representations of
entities and a decoder – a tensor factorization model exploiting these representations to
predict labeled edges.
     Hamilton et al. (2017) introduced GraphSAGE (SAmple and AggreGatE) an inductive
framework that leverages node feature information (ex: text attributes, node degrees) to
efficiently generate node embeddings for previously unseen data or entirely new (sub)graphs.
In this inductive framework, we learn a function that generates embeddings by sampling
and aggregating features from a node’s local neighborhood. You et al. (2019) proposed a
Position Aware Graph Neural Network that significantly improves performance on the Link
Prediction task over the Graph Convolutional Networks.
     Guan et al. (2019) introduced the WikiPeople dataset based on Wikidata. However,
Wikidata does not have contact details and can be incomplete like the DBPedia (UDBMS)
dataset. Dasgupta et al. (2018) also introduced a dataset based on Wikidata. Again, for
afore mentioned reasons, it’s not different from DBPedia dataset. Zitnik and Leskovec
(2017) introduced the Protein-Protein Interaction dataset which has been used in a number
of recent works in graph neural networks. Kipf and Welling (2017) presented Graph Con-
volutional networks. Hamilton et al. (2017) introduced the idea of inductive representation
of nodes in a graph. You et al. (2019) added anchor nodes to improve the representation of
nodes in the graph.
     Oberhofer et al. (2014) introduced many aspects of entity resolution using a probabilistic
matching engine. DeepMatcher Mudgal et al. (2018) presents a neural model for Entity
Matching. Konda et al. (2019) presented an end-to-end use case for Entity Matching.
Müller et al. (2020) described an integrated neural model to find non-obvious relations.
The Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) dataset introduced by Zitnik and Leskovec (2017)
consists of 24 human tissues and hence has 24 subgraphs of roughly 2400 nodes each and
their edges. Having similar subgraphs helps to average the performance of the model across
subgraphs. Open Graph Benchmark Lu et al. (2019) initiative by SNAP Group at Stanford
is trying to come up with large benchmark datasets for research in Graph Neural Models.
     Much of the recent work on explanations are based on post-hoc models that try to
approximate the prediction of complex models using interpretable models. Vannur et al.
(2020) present post-hoc explanations of the links predicted by a Graph Neural Network by

                                              3
          xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




treating it as a classification problem. They present explanations using LIME Ribeiro et al.
(2016) and SHAP Lundberg and Lee (2017).
    Over the years, Attention has been understood to provide an important way to explain
the workings of neural models, particularly in the field of NLP. Jain and Wallace (2019)
challenged this understanding by showing that the assumptions for accepting Attention
as explanation do not hold. Wiegreffe and Pinter (2019) however argued that Attention
also contributes to explainability. More recently, Agarwal et al. (2021) introduced Neural
Additive Models which learn a model for each feature to increase the interpretability. In this
work, we focus on solutions that are more suited to Graph Neural Models and in particular,
explaining Link Prediction models.


3 Link Prediction

We begin by explaining our experimental setup. We use the framework provided by You
et al. (2019), which in turn uses pytorch Paszke et al. (2019) and more specifically pytorch
geometric Fey and Lenssen (2019). One of the pre-processing steps we do is finding the all
pairs shortest paths calculation using appropriate approximations. As we’ll see in Section
3.1, this pre-processing step comes in handy to explain the links as well.
   We train models using GCN and PGNN on the UDBMS Dataset and the MDM Boot-
camp Dataset that is based on the wikipedia. Following the procedure in You et al. (2019),
we choose only connected components with atleast 10 nodes for our experiments. A positive
sample is created by randomly choosing 10% of the links. For the negative sample, we use
one of the nodes involved in the positive samples and pick a random unconnected node as
the other node. The number of negative samples is same as that of the positive samples.
We discuss hard negative samples in our future work section. Our batch size is typically 8
subgraphs and for PGNN, we use 64 anchor nodes.


                     Dataset          Model       ROC AUC       Std. Dev.

                     UDBMS            GCN           0.4689         0.0280
                                     P-GNN          0.6456         0.0185
                 MDM Dataset          GCN           0.4047        0.09184
                                     P-GNN          0.6473        0.02116

    Table 1: Comparison of Link Prediction performance on different People Datasets



    As can be seen in Table 1, P-GNN outperforms GCN in both our datasets. The perfor-
mance obtained by the better model is also less than what we desire. There are a number
of options available to try and improve the performance of the models. However, in this
work, we want to focus on how such a system can be deployed in production under the
professional oversight of Data Stewards.

                                              4
          xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




Figure 2: xLP: Explainable Link Prediction. The above image shows a subgraph with links
          predicted. On the right we see verification text for the predicted link and a
          comparison of the nodes involved in the link.



3.1 Explainability
In typical enterprise deployments, it is desired that the models provide explanations so
that the Data Stewards can understand why the model is predicting a link. While Data
Stewards can also use the system to detect errors, we want the Data Stewards to draw
valuable insights into the model’s learning process and also understand it’s limitations. In
this section, we discuss several explainability techniques that could be used for explaining
the links predicted by the Graph Neural Network models in Section 3. While a number
of above such solutions for explaining neural models exist, our focus is been on human
understandable explanations for graph neural networks. We explored different techniques
in this area and categorized them into three.

Verification
Verification is the proof for the predicted link. This can be used to understand links already
present in the graph and also try to validate new links predicted by our models. Some of
the earlier error detection work involved external information to verify the predicted link.
Thorne et al. (2018) describes the FEVER shared task for facts extraction and verification.

Interpretation
Ribeiro et al. (2018) introduced the idea of Anchors as Explanations, which builds upon
their earlier LIME solution Ribeiro et al. (2016). The key idea here is to show only few

                                              5
          xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




important features (anchors) rather than showing the pros and cons of several or all features.
Huang et al. (2020) introduced GraphLIME, which as the name indicates is a version of
LIME for Graph Neural Networks. They compared their solution GNN Explainer Ying
et al. (2019) which follows a subgraph approach to explain predicted links.

Explanation
Elton (2020) presents the Self-Explainable AI idea where a single model is used to both
predict and provide parameters that can be used to explain the prediction. This is similar
to a multi-task learning setting. Mutual Information is used to measure the faithfulness
of the explanation model to the diagnostic model. Sun et al. (2019) also uses Mutual
Information to measure the closeness of supervised and unsupervised models.

4 Implementation
We used GNN Explainer Ying et al. (2019) as the baseline explanation which we want to
make more human understandable using the 3 techniques discussed in this work.




Figure 3: Path Ranking based explanation for Link Prediction. Data Stewards can explore
          the already existing paths (if any) and understand the predicted link. They can
          also provide feedback.



4.1 Link Verification with External Information
One of the desirable properties of the dataset that we set out to create is the ability to
verify the links present in the dataset. Thorne et al. (2018) introduced the FEVER dataset
for fact verification. We follow a similar method in our work to generate verifiable text that
a human annotator can use to decide if the predicted link is valid or otherwise.

                                              6
          xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




    While in this dataset, we use text from unstructured pages, we can also include links
from other sources namely organization charts, logs, emails and other enterprise documents
to generate such verification text. The verifiable text for our example is shown in Figure 2.
For links that are present in training data, it’ll be easy to fetch the verifying text. During
inference on unseen data, we could using an information retrieval system, typically a search
index to query for text and other details that mention the entities that are predicted to be
linked by the Graph Neural Network.




                              Figure 4: Anchors Explanation


4.2 Anchors for Link Explanation
We train a simple classifier to predict if a source and target nodes are linked or otherwise.
This classifier is trained based on the output of the GNN model described in Section 3.
Compared to the GNN model, this post hoc classification model is considered to be more
interpretable.
    In the above explanation, the classifier model is predicting a link between Ellen De-
Generes and Heidi Montag just like the original GNN model. Anchors model then explains
that these two nodes will have a link 52.3% of the time, if the conditions shown in Figure 4
hold. This result suffers from loss of information between the GNN model and the post-hoc
interpretable model. Our classifier above is rudimentary and with more feature engineering,
we could make the classifier model closer to the GNN model. However, even with reduced
accuracy, providing a summary of the conditions under which a model predicts a link is
more intuitive than the more complex graph explainability solutions.

4.3 Path Ranking based Link Explanation
Our next explainability solution is inspired by ideas in Error detection in Knowledge Graphs.
In particular, we use the PaTyBRED approach described in Melo and Paulheim (2020).
Path Ranking Algorithm (PRA) introduced by Lao et al. (2011) was based on the probability
of ending up at an Object o, if we perform random walks on a graph starting at Subject
s and Relation r. Gardner and Mitchell (2015) replaced the path probability with binary

                                              7
          xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




values. PaTyBRED further simplified the process by using a Random Forest instead of
logistic regression and introducing a k-selection method.
    As shown in Figure 3, we use the ranking function in the PaTyBRED algorithm to find
a path among multiple already existing paths between two nodes. The idea here is that
the information contained in that path is more useful than other paths to understand the
predicted link. This idea is somewhat similar to the GNN Explainer idea of exploring the
subgraph around the predicted link, except that we prefer to use an independent algorithm
to rank all the paths rather than subgraph around the two nodes.

4.4 Evaluation

We then evaluated each of these explainability techniques in the form of a case study. We
presented 100 samples of predicted links, the ground truth, and each of the 3 explanations
along with GNN explainer output. We measured how often human annotators agree that
the explanation is accurate for the predicted link. We did not evaluate based on which
explanation is better since we generally got subjective answers in the initial part of the case
study. Annotators preferred having multiple explainability solutions, each of which might
be performing better in certain aspects. So we asked the annotators how often they agreed
with each of the methods. The results from this case study are as shown in Table 2.


                   Explainability Technique                   Agreement

                   Link Verification                                    81
                   Anchors based Explanation                            56
                   Path Ranking based Explanation                       63

              Table 2: Comparison of annotator agreement with explanations




5 Conclusion

In this demo, we presented a solution for the Link Prediction task on property graphs for
Master Data Management. We presented a number of motivating experiments and use-
cases, and describe the special care we take to address fairness, data protection, privacy
and AI ethics. We then presented three human understandable solutions to explain the
links predicted by Graph Neural Networks, namely search based retrieval of verification
text, anchors based, and path ranking based explanations.


Acknowledgments and Disclosure of Funding

We thank Scott Schumacher, Marcus Boon, Berthold Reinwald, Xiao Qin, Jim O’Neil,
Martin Oberhofer, Lars Bremmer, Manfred Overs, and Philip Mueller.

                                              8
          xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




References
Rishabh Agarwal, Levi Melnick, Nicholas Frosst, Xuezhou Zhang, Ben Lengerich, Rich
  Caruana, and Geoffrey E Hinton. Neural additive models: Interpretable machine learning
  with neural nets. Advances in neural information processing systems, 34:4699–4711, 2021.

Shib Sankar Dasgupta, Swayambhu Nath Ray, and Partha Talukdar. Hyte: Hyperplane-
  based temporally aware knowledge graph embedding. In Proceedings of the 2018 Confer-
  ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2001–2011, 2018.

Daniel C Elton. Self-explaining ai as an alternative to interpretable ai, 2020.

Matthias Fey and Jan Eric Lenssen. Fast graph representation learning with pytorch geo-
 metric. arXiv preprint, abs/1903.02428:1–9, 2019.

Balaji Ganesan, Srinivas Parkala, Neeraj R Singh, Sumit Bhatia, Gayatri Mishra, Math-
  een Ahmed Pasha, Hima Patel, and Somashekar Naganna. Link prediction using graph
  neural networks for master data management, 2020.

Matt Gardner and Tom Mitchell. Efficient and expressive knowledge base completion using
 subgraph feature extraction. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods
 in Natural Language Processing, pages 1488–1498, 2015.

Saiping Guan, Xiaolong Jin, Yuanzhuo Wang, and Xueqi Cheng. Link prediction on n-ary
  relational data. In The World Wide Web Conference, pages 583–593, 2019.

Will Hamilton, Zhitao Ying, and Jure Leskovec. Inductive representation learning on large
 graphs. In Advances in neural information processing systems, pages 1024–1034, 2017.

Qiang Huang, Makoto Yamada, Yuan Tian, Dinesh Singh, Dawei Yin, and Yi Chang.
  Graphlime: Local interpretable model explanations for graph neural networks. arXiv
  preprint arXiv:2001.06216, 2020.

Sarthak Jain and Byron C Wallace. Attention is not explanation. In Proceedings of the
  2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
  Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, volume 1, pages 3543–3556, 2019.

Thomas N. Kipf and Max Welling. Semi-supervised classification with graph convolutional
 networks, 2017.

Pradap Konda, Sanjay Subramanian Seshadri, Elan Segarra, Brent Hueth, and AnHai Doan.
  Executing entity matching end to end: A case study. In EDBT, pages 489–500, 2019.

Ni Lao, Tom Mitchell, and William Cohen. Random walk inference and learning in a large
  scale knowledge base. In Proceedings of the 2011 conference on empirical methods in
  natural language processing, pages 529–539, 2011.

Jiaheng Lu, Jun Chen, and Chao Zhang. Open graph benchmark, 2019.

Scott M Lundberg and Su-In Lee. A unified approach to interpreting model predictions. In
  Advances in neural information processing systems, pages 4765–4774, 2017.

                                              9
         xLP: Explainable Link Prediction for Master Data Management




André Melo Melo and Heiko Paulheim. Automatic detection of relation assertion errors and
 induction of relation constraints. Semantic Web, 11:801–830, 2020.
Sidharth Mudgal, Han Li, Theodoros Rekatsinas, AnHai Doan, et al. Deep learning for
  entity matching: A design space exploration. In Proceedings of the 2018 International
  Conference on Management of Data, pages 19–34, 2018.
Phillipp Müller, Xiao Qin, Balaji Ganesan, Nasrullah Sheikh, and Berthold Reinwald.
  An integrated graph neural network for supervised non-obvious relationship detection
  in knowledge graphs. In EDBT, pages 379–382, 2020.
Martin Oberhofer, Eberhard Hechler, Ivan Milman, Scott Schumacher, and Dan Wolfson.
 Beyond big data: Using social MDM to drive deep customer insight. IBM Press, 2014.
Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, et al. Pytorch:
 An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. In Advances in neural in-
 formation processing systems, pages 8026–8037, 2019.
Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Sameer Singh, and Carlos Guestrin. ” why should i trust you?”
 explaining the predictions of any classifier. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM SIGKDD
 international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 1135–1144, 2016.
Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Sameer Singh, and Carlos Guestrin. Anchors: High-precision model-
 agnostic explanations. In AAAI, volume 18, pages 1527–1535, 2018.
Michael Schlichtkrull, Thomas N Kipf, Peter Bloem, Rianne Van Den Berg, Ivan Titov, and
 Max Welling. Modeling relational data with graph convolutional networks. In European
 Semantic Web Conference, volume 11136, pages 593–607, 2018.
Fan-Yun Sun, Jordan Hoffmann, and Jian Tang. Infograph: Unsupervised and semi-
  supervised graph-level representation learning via mutual information maximization.
  arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.01000, 2019.
James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos Christodoulopoulos, and Arpit Mittal. Fever: a
  large-scale dataset for fact extraction and verification. arXiv:1803.05355, 2018.
Lingraj S Vannur, Balaji Ganesan, Lokesh Nagalapatti, Hima Patel, and MN Thippeswamy.
  Data augmentation for personal knowledge base population, 2020.
Sarah Wiegreffe and Yuval Pinter.    Attention is not not explanation.    arXiv preprint
  arXiv:1908.04626, 2019.
Zhitao Ying, Dylan Bourgeois, Jiaxuan You, Marinka Zitnik, and Jure Leskovec. Gn-
  nexplainer: Generating explanations for graph neural networks. In Advances in neural
  information processing systems, pages 9244–9255, 2019.
Jiaxuan You, Rex Ying, and Jure Leskovec. Position-aware graph neural networks. In
  Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, volume 97. PMLR Press, 2019.
Marinka Zitnik and Jure Leskovec. Predicting multicellular function through multi-layer
 tissue networks. Bioinformatics, 33(14):190–198, 2017.

                                           10
