CRD’s original guidance for undertaking systematic reviews was first
published in 1996 and revised in 2001. The guidance is widely used,
both nationally and internationally.

The purpose of this third updated and expanded edition remains
to provide practical guidance for undertaking systematic reviews
evaluating the effects of health interventions. It presents the different
stages of the process and incorporates issues specific to reviews of
diagnostic and prognostic tests, public health interventions, adverse
effects and economic evaluations. Recognising that health care
decision-making often involves complex questions that go beyond
‘does it work’, the guidance also includes information relating to how
and why an intervention works.

CRD is part of the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and
is a department of the University of York, UK. CRD was established
in 1994 and undertakes systematic reviews evaluating the effects of
interventions used in health and social care.




ISBN 978-1-900991-19-3
                                                                            Centre for Reviews and Dissemination
                                                                            University of York
               LE
    SAMP
                                                                            Heslington
                                                                            York YO10 5DD
                                                                            United Kingdom
9 781900 991193                                                             www.york.ac.uk/inst/crd
               Systematic Reviews


               CRD’s guidance for undertaking reviews in
               health care




CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 283                            8/1/09 09:29:56
          © Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, 2008
          Published by CRD, University of York
          January 2009
          ISBN 978-1-900640-47-3
          This publication presents independent guidance produced by the Centre for Reviews and
          Dissemination (CRD). The views expressed in this publication are those of CRD and not
          necessarily those of the NHS, the NIHR or the Department of Health.
          All rights reserved. Reproduction of this book by photocopying or electronic means for
          non-commercial purposes is permitted. Otherwise, no part of this book may be reproduced,
          adapted, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted by any means, electronic, mechanical,
          photocopying, or otherwise without the prior written permission of CRD.
          Cover design by yo-yo.uk.com
          Prepared and printed by:
          York Publishing Services Ltd
          64 Hallfield Road
          Layerthorpe
          York YO31 7ZQ
          Tel: 01904 431213
          Website: www.yps-publishing.co.uk




CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 284                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:56
               Contents



               Preface                                                                        v
               Acknowledgements                                                              ix
               Chapter 1          Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic
                                  review of health interventions                              1
               Chapter 2          Systematic reviews of clinical tests                      109
               Chapter 3          Systematic reviews of public health interventions         157
               Chapter 4          Systematic reviews of adverse effects                     177
               Chapter 5          Systematic reviews of economic evaluations                199
               Chapter 6          Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside
                                  effectiveness reviews                                     219
               APPENDICES:
                   Appendix 1 Other review approaches                                       239
                   Appendix 2 Example search strategy to identify studies from
                              electronic databases                                          243
                   Appendix 3 Documenting the search process                                249
                   Appendix 4 Searching for adverse effects                                 253
               Abbreviations                                                                255
               Glossary                                                                     261
               Index                                                                        277




CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 285                                                              8/1/09 09:29:56
CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 286   8/1/09 09:29:56
               PREFACE



               This third edition of the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD) guidance for
               undertaking systematic reviews builds on previous editions published in 1996 and 2001.
               Our guidance continues to be recommended as a source of good practice by agencies
               such as the National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment (NIHR
               HTA) programme, and the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE),
               and has been used widely both nationally and internationally. Our aim is to promote
               high standards in commissioning and conduct, by providing practical guidance for
               undertaking systematic reviews evaluating the effects of health interventions.


               WHY SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS ARE NEEDED

               Health care decisions for individual patients and for public policy should be informed
               by the best available research evidence. Practitioners and decision-makers are
               encouraged to make use of the latest research and information about best practice, and
               to ensure that decisions are demonstrably rooted in this knowledge.1, 2 However, this
               can be difficult given the large amounts of information generated by individual studies
               which may be biased, methodologically flawed, time and context dependent, and can
               be misinterpreted and misrepresented.3 Furthermore, individual studies can reach
               conflicting conclusions. This disparity may be because of biases or differences in the way
               the studies were designed or conducted, or simply due to the play of chance. In such
               situations, it is not always clear which results are the most reliable, or which should be
               used as the basis for practice and policy decisions.4
               Systematic reviews aim to identify, evaluate and summarise the findings of all relevant
               individual studies, thereby making the available evidence more accessible to decision-
               makers. When appropriate, combining the results of several studies gives a more
               reliable and precise estimate of an intervention’s effectiveness than one study alone.5-8
               Systematic reviews adhere to a strict scientific design based on explicit, pre-specified
               and reproducible methods. Because of this, when carried out well, they provide reliable
               estimates about the effects of interventions so that conclusions are defensible. As well
               as setting out what we know about a particular intervention, systematic reviews can
               also demonstrate where knowledge is lacking.4, 9 This can then be used to guide future
               research.10


               WHAT IS COVERED IN THE GUIDANCE

               The methods and steps necessary to conduct a systematic review are presented in a
               core chapter (Chapter 1). Additional issues specific to reviews in more specialised topic
               areas, such as clinical tests (diagnostic, screening and prognostic), and public health
               are addressed in separate, complementary chapters (Chapters 2-3). We also consider
               questions relating to harm (Chapter 4) costs (Chapter 5) and how and why interventions
               work (Chapter 6).


                                                                                                           v



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 287                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:57
          Systematic Reviews


          This guide focuses on the methods relating to use of aggregate study level data.
          Although discussed briefly in relevant sections, individual patient data (IPD) meta-
          analysis, which is a specific method of systematic review, is not described in detail. The
          basic principles are outlined in Appendix 1 and more detailed guidance can be found
          in the Cochrane Handbook11 and specialist texts.12, 13 Similarly, other forms of evidence
          synthesis including prospective meta-analysis, reviews of reviews, and scoping reviews
          are beyond the scope of this guidance but are described briefly in Appendix 1.


          WHO SHOULD USE THIS GUIDE

          The guidance has been written for those with an understanding of health research but
          who are new to systematic reviews; those with some experience but who want to learn
          more; and for commissioners. We hope that experienced systematic reviewers will
          also find this guidance of value; for example when planning a review in an area that is
          unfamiliar or with an expanded scope. This guidance might also be useful to those who
          need to evaluate the quality of systematic reviews, including, for example, anyone with
          responsibility for implementing systematic review findings.
          Given the purpose of the guidance, the audience it is designed for, and the aim to
          remain concise, it has been necessary to strike a balance between the wide scope
          covered and the level of detail and discussion included. In addition to providing
          references to support statements and discussions, recommended reading of more
          specialist works such as the Cochrane Handbook,14 Systematic Reviews in the Social
          Sciences,4 and Systematic Reviews in Health Care15 have been given throughout the
          text.


          HOW TO USE THIS GUIDE

          The core methods for carrying out any systematic review are given in Chapter 1 which
          can be read from start to finish as an introduction to the review process, followed step
          by step while undertaking a review, or specific sections can be referred to individually.
          In view of this, and the sometimes iterative nature of the review process, occasional
          repetition and cross referencing between sections has been necessary.
          Chapters 2-5 provide supplementary information relevant to conducting reviews
          in more specialised topic areas. To minimize repetition, they simply highlight the
          differences or additional considerations pertinent to their speciality and should be used
          in conjunction with the core principles set out in Chapter 1. Chapter 6 provides guidance
          on the identification, assessment and synthesis of qualitative studies to help explain,
          interpret and implement the findings from effectiveness reviews. This reflects the
          growing recognition of the contribution that qualitative research can make to reviews of
          effectiveness.




          vi



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 288                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:57
                                                                                                  Preface


               For the purposes of space and readability:

               The term ‘review’ is used throughout this guidance and should be taken as a short form
               for ‘systematic review’, except where it is explicitly stated that non-systematic reviews
               are being discussed.
               ‘Review question’ is used in the singular even though frequently there may be more
               than one question or objective set. The same process applies to each and every
               question.
               A glossary of terms has been provided to ensure a clear understanding of the use of
               those terms in the context of this guidance and to facilitate ease of reference for the
               reader.


               REFERENCES

               1. Bullock H, Mountford J, Stanley R. Better policy-making. London: Centre for
               Management and Policy Studies; 2001.
               2. Strategic Policy Making Team. Professional policy making for the twenty first century.
               London: Cabinet Office; 1999.
               3. Wilson P, Petticrew M, and on behalf of the Medical Research Council’s Population
               Health Sciences Research Network knowledge transfer project team. Why promote the
               findings of single research studies? BMJ 2008;336:722.
               4. Petticrew M, Roberts H. Systematic reviews in the social sciences: a practical guide.
               Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing; 2006.
               5. Oxman AD. Meta-statistics: help or hindrance? ACP J Club 1993;118:A-13.
               6. L’Abbe KA, Detsky AS, O’Rourke K. Meta-analysis in clinical research. Ann Intern Med
               1987;107:224-33.
               7. Thacker SB. Meta-analysis: a quantitative approach to research integration. JAMA
               1988;259:1685-9.
               8. Sacks HS, Berrier J, Reitman D, Acona-Berk VA, Chalmers TC. Meta-analysis of
               randomized controlled trials. N Engl J Med 1987;316:450-5.
               9. Petticrew M. Why certain systematic reviews reach uncertain conclusions. BMJ
               2003;326:756-8.
               10. Brown P, Brunnhuber K, Chalkidou K, Chalmers I, Clarke C, Fenton M, et al. How to
               formulate research recommendations. BMJ 2006;333:804-6.
               11. Stewart LA, Tierney JF, Clarke M. Chapter 19: Reviews of individual patient data.
               In: Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of
               interventions. Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration;
               2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org.




                                                                                                         vii



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 289                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:57
          Systematic Reviews


          12. Stewart LA, Clarke MJ. Practical methodology of meta-analyses (overviews) using
          updated individual patient data. Cochrane Working Group. Stat Med 1995;14:2057-79.
          13. Stewart LA, Tierney JF. To IPD or not to IPD? Advantages and disadvantages of
          systematic reviews using individual patient data. Eval Health Prof 2002;25:76-97.
          14. Higgins JPT, Green S, (editors). Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of
          interventions. Version 5.0.0 [updated February 2008]: The Cochrane Collaboration;
          2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
          15. Egger M, Davey Smith G, Altman DG. Systematic reviews in health care: meta
          analysis in context. 2nd ed. London: BMJ Books; 2001.




          viii



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 290                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:57
               Acknowledgements



               This guidance has been produced as a collaborative effort by the following staff at
               CRD, building on the work of the original writers of CRD Report 4 (Editions 1 & 2).
               Jo Akers, Raquel Aguiar-Ibáñez, Ali Baba-Akbari Sari, Susanne Beynon, Alison Booth,
               Jane Burch, Duncan Chambers, Dawn Craig, Jane Dalton, Steven Duffy,
               Alison Eastwood, Debra Fayter, Tiago Fonseca, David Fox, Julie Glanville, Su Golder,
               Susanne Hempel, Kate Light, Catriona McDaid, Gill Norman, Colin Pierce, Bob Phillips,
               Stephen Rice, Amber Rithalia, Mark Rodgers, Frances Sharp, Amanda Sowden,
               Lesley Stewart, Christian Stock, Rebecca Trowman, Ros Wade, Marie Westwood,
               Paul Wilson, Nerys Woolacott, Gill Worthy and Kath Wright.
               CRD would like to thank Doug Altman, Director of the Centre for Statistics in
               Medicine and Cancer Research UK Medical Statistics Group, at the University of
               Oxford, for writing the Prognostics section of Chapter 2, Reviews of clinical tests.
               CRD is grateful to the following for their peer review comments on draft versions of
               various chapters of the guidance:
               Doug Altman, Centre for Statistics in Medicine, University of Oxford.
               Rebecca Armstrong, Melbourne School of Population Health, University of
               Melbourne.
               Jeffrey Aronson, Department of Primary Health Care, University of Oxford.
               Deborah Ashby, Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen
               Mary, University of London.
               Andrew Booth, Trent RDSU Information Service at ScHARR Library, University of
               Sheffield.
               Patrick Bossuyt, AMC, University of Amsterdam.
               Nicky Britten, Institute of Health Service Research, Peninsula Medical School,
               Universities of Exeter and Plymouth.
               Mike Clarke, UK Cochrane Centre, Oxford.
               Jon Deeks, Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of
               Birmingham.
               Mary Dixon-Woods, Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester.
               Jodie Doyle, Melbourne School of Population Health, University of Melbourne.
               Mike Drummond, Centre for Health Economics, University of York.
               Zoe Garrett, Centre for Health Technology Evaluation, NICE.
               Ruth Garside, Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter and Plymouth.
               Julie Hadley, Faculty of Health, Staffordshire University.
               Roger Harbord, Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol.


                                                                                                      ix



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 291                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:57
          Systematic Reviews


          Angela Harden, EPPI-Centre, University of London.
          Andrew Herxheimer, UK Cochrane Centre, Oxford.
          Julian Higgins, MRC Biostatistics Unit, Institute of Public Health, Cambridge.
          Chris Hyde, ARIF and West Midlands HTA Group, University of Birmingham.
          Mike Kelly, Centre for Public Health Excellence, NICE.
          Jos Kleijnen, Kleijnen Systematic Reviews.
          Carole Lefebvre, UK Cochrane Centre, Oxford.
          Yoon Loke, School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice, University of East Anglia.
          Susan Mallett, Centre for Statistics in Medicine, University of Oxford.
          Heather McIntosh, Community Health Sciences, University of Edinburgh.
          Miranda Mugford, School of Medicine Health Policy and Practice, University of East
          Anglia.
          Mark Petticrew, Public and Environmental Health Research Unit, London School of
          Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
          Jennie Popay, Division of Health Research, Lancaster University.
          Deidre Price, Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Oxford.
          Gerry Richardson, Centre for Health Economics, University of York.
          Jonathan Sterne, Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol.
          Jayne Tierney, MRC Clinical Trials Unit, London.
          Luke Vale, Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen.
          Liz Waters, Melbourne School of Population Health, University of Melbourne.
          Penny Whiting, Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol.




          x



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 292                                                                   8/1/09 09:29:58
               CHAPTER 1
               CORE PRINCIPLES AND METHODS FOR CONDUCTING
               A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW OF HEALTH INTERVENTIONS



               1.1 GETTING STARTED                                                           3
                   1.1.1 Is a review required?                                               3
                   1.1.2 The review team                                                     4
                   1.1.3 The advisory group                                                  5
               1.2 THE REVIEW PROTOCOL                                                        6
                   1.2.1 Introduction                                                         6
                   1.2.2 Key areas to cover in a review protocol                              6
                         1.2.2.1 Background                                                   6
                         1.2.2.2 Review question and inclusion criteria                       6
                         1.2.2.3 Defining inclusion criteria                                 10
                         1.2.2.4 Identifying research evidence                               13
                         1.2.2.5 Study selection                                             13
                         1.2.2.6 Data extraction                                             13
                         1.2.2.7 Quality assessment                                          14
                         1.2.2.8 Data synthesis                                              14
                         1.2.2.9 Dissemination                                               14
                   1.2.3 Approval of the draft protocol                                      14
                   1.2.4 How to deal with protocol amendments during the review              15
               1.3 UNDERTAKING THE REVIEW                                                    16
                   1.3.1 Identifying research evidence for systematic reviews                16
                         1.3.1.1 Minimizing publication and language biases                  16
                         1.3.1.2 Searching electronic databases                              17
                         1.3.1.3 Searching other sources                                     17
                         1.3.1.4 Constructing the search strategy for electronic databases   19
                         1.3.1.5 Text mining                                                 20
                         1.3.1.6 Updating literature searches                                20
                         1.3.1.7 Current awareness                                           20
                         1.3.1.8 Managing references                                         21
                         1.3.1.9 Obtaining documents                                         21
                         1.3.1.10 Documenting the search                                     21
                   1.3.2 Study selection                                                     23
                         1.3.2.1 Process for study selection                                 23
                   1.3.3 Data extraction                                                     28
                         1.3.3.1 Design                                                      28
                         1.3.3.2 Content                                                     28
                         1.3.3.3 Software                                                    29
                         1.3.3.4 Piloting data extraction                                    29
                         1.3.3.5 Process of data extraction                                  29



                                                                                              1



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 1                                                                8/1/09 09:28:38
          Systematic Reviews


                  1.3.4 Quality assessment                                                33
                        1.3.4.1 Introduction                                              33
                        1.3.4.2 Defining quality                                          33
                        1.3.4.3 The impact of study quality on the estimate of effect     42
                        1.3.4.4 The process of quality assessment in systematic reviews   43
                  1.3.5 Data synthesis                                                    45
                        1.3.5.1 Narrative synthesis                                       48
                        1.3.5.2 Quantitative synthesis of comparative studies             54
                  1.3.6 Report writing                                                    77
                        1.3.6.1 General considerations                                    77
                        1.3.6.2 Executive summary or abstract                             80
                        1.3.6.3 Formulating the discussion                                81
                        1.3.6.4 Conclusions, implications, recommendations                81
                  1.3.7 Archiving the review                                              84
                  1.3.8 Disseminating the findings of systematic reviews                  85
                        1.3.8.1 What is dissemination?                                    85
                        1.3.8.2 CRD approach to dissemination                             86
          REFERENCES                                                                      91




          2



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 2                                                                  8/1/09 09:28:40
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.1          GETTING STARTED

               There are a number of reasons why a new review may be considered. Commissioned
               calls for evidence synthesis are usually on topics where a gap in knowledge has been
               identified, prioritised and a question posed. Alternatively the idea for a review may be
               investigator led, with a topic identified from an area of practice or research interest;
               such approaches may or may not be funded. Whatever the motivation for undertaking a
               review the preparation and conduct should be rigorous.


               1.1.1        Is a review required?

               Before undertaking a systematic review it is necessary to check whether there are
               already existing or ongoing reviews, and whether a new review is justified. This
               process should begin by searching the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects
               (DARE),1 and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR).2 DARE contains
               critical appraisals of systematic reviews of the effects of health interventions. CDSR
               contains the full text of regularly updated systematic reviews of the effects of health
               care interventions carried out by the Cochrane Collaboration. Other sites to consider
               searching include, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE)
               and the NIHR Health Technology Assessment (NIHR HTA) programme websites. The
               Campbell Collaboration website3 contains the Campbell Library of Systematic Reviews
               giving full details of completed and ongoing systematic reviews in education, crime
               and justice, and social welfare; and the Evidence for Policy and Practice Information
               (EPPI) Centre,4 whose review fields include education, health promotion, social care and
               welfare, and public health, has a database of systematic and non systematic reviews
               of public health interventions (DoPHER). It may also be worth looking at sites such as
               the National Guidelines Clearinghouse (NGC)5 or the Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines
               Network (SIGN),6 as many guidelines are based on systematic review evidence.
               Searching the previous year of MEDLINE or other appropriate bibliographic databases
               may be helpful in identifying recently published reviews.
               If an existing review is identified which addresses the question of interest, then the
               review should be assessed to determine whether it is of sufficient quality to guide policy
               and practice. In general, a good review should focus on a well-defined question and
               use appropriate methods. A comprehensive search should have been carried out, clear
               and appropriate criteria used to select or reject studies, and the process of assessing
               study quality, extracting and synthesising data should have been unbiased, reproducible
               and transparent. If these processes are not well-documented, confidence in results and
               inferences is weakened. The review should report the results of all included studies
               clearly, highlighting any similarities or differences between studies, and exploring the
               reasons for any variations.
               Critical appraisal can be undertaken with the aid of a checklist7-10 such as the example
               outlined in Box 1.1. Such checklists focus on identifying flaws in reviews that might bias
               the results.8 Quality assessment is important because the effectiveness of interventions
               may be masked or exaggerated by reviews that are not rigorously conducted.
               Structured abstracts included in the DARE database1 provide worked examples of how a
               checklist can be used to appraise and summarise reviews.


                                                                                                        3



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 3                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:40
          Systematic Reviews


          If a high quality review is located, but was completed some time ago, then an
          update of the review may be justified. Current relevance will need to be assessed
          and is particularly important in fields where the research is rapidly evolving. Where
          appropriate, collaboration with the original research team may assist in the update
          process by providing access to the data they used. However, little research has been
          conducted on when and how to update systematic reviews and the feasibility and
          efficiency of the identified approaches is uncertain.11 If a review is of adequate quality
          and still relevant, there may be no need to undertake another systematic review.
          Where a new systematic review or an update is required, the next step is to establish a
          review team and possibly an advisory group, to develop the review protocol.



              Box 1.1: Critically appraising review articles

              •     Was the review question clearly defined in terms of population, interventions,
                    comparators, outcomes and study designs (PICOS)?
              •     Was the search strategy adequate and appropriate? Were there any
                    restrictions on language, publication status or publication date?
              •     Were preventative steps taken to minimize bias and errors in the study
                    selection process?
              •     Were appropriate criteria used to assess the quality of the primary studies,
                    and were preventative steps taken to minimize bias and errors in the quality
                    assessment process?
              •     Were preventative steps taken to minimize bias and errors in the data
                    extraction process?
              •     Were adequate details presented for each of the primary studies?
              •     Were appropriate methods used for data synthesis? Were differences between
                    studies assessed? Were the studies pooled, and if so was it appropriate and
                    meaningful to do so?
              •     Do the authors’ conclusions accurately reflect the evidence that was reviewed?



          1.1.2         The review team

          The review team will manage and conduct the review and should have a range of
          skills. Ideally these should include expertise in systematic review methods, information
          retrieval, the relevant clinical/topic area, statistics, health economics and/or qualitative
          research methods where appropriate. It is good practice to have a minimum of two
          researchers involved so that measures to minimize bias and error can be implemented
          at all stages of the review. Any conflicts of interest should be explicitly noted early in
          the process, and steps taken to ensure that these do not impact on the review process.



          4



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 4                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:40
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.1.3        The advisory group

               In addition to the team who will undertake the review there may be a number of
               individuals or groups who are consulted at various stages, including for example health
               care professionals, patient representatives, service users and experts in research
               methods. Some funding bodies require the establishment of an advisory group who will
               comment on the protocol and final report and provide input to ensure that the review
               has practical relevance to likely end users. Even if this is not the case, and even where
               the review team is knowledgeable about the area, it is still valuable to have an advisory
               group whose members can be consulted at key stages.
               Engaging with stakeholders who are likely to be involved in implementing the
               recommendations of the review can help to ensure that the review is relevant to their
               needs. The particular form of user involvement will be determined by the purpose of the
               consultation. For example, when considering relevant outcomes for the review, users
               may suggest particular aspects of quality of life which it would be appropriate to assess.
               An example of a review which incorporated the views of users to considerable effect is
               one evaluating interventions to promote smoking cessation in pregnancy, which included
               outcomes more relevant to users as a result of their involvement.12 However, consultation
               is time consuming, and needs to be taken into account in the project timetable. Where
               reviews have strict time constraints, wide consultation may not be possible.
               At an early stage, members of the advisory group should discuss the audiences for
               whom the review findings are likely to be relevant, helping to start the planning of a
               dissemination strategy from the beginning of the project.
               The review team may also wish to seek more informal advice from other clinical or
               methodological experts who are not members of the advisory group. Likewise, where
               an advisory group has not been established, the review team may still seek advice from
               relevant sources.


                  Summary: Getting started

                  •     Whatever the motivation for undertaking a review the preparation and conduct
                        should be rigorous.
                  •     A search of resources such as the DARE database should be undertaken to
                        check for existing or ongoing reviews, to ensure a new review is justified.
                  •     A review team should be established to manage and conduct the review. The
                        membership should provide a range of skills, including expertise in systematic
                        review methods, information retrieval, the relevant clinical/topic area, statistics,
                        health economics and/or qualitative research methods where appropriate.
                  •     Formation of an advisory group including, for example, health care
                        professionals, patient representatives, services users and experts in research
                        methods may be a requirement of some funding bodies. In any event, it may
                        be valuable to have an advisory group, whose members can be consulted at
                        key stages.
                  •     The review team may wish to seek advice from a variety of clinical or
                        methodological experts, whether or not an advisory group is convened.

                                                                                                               5



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 5                                                                                  8/1/09 09:28:41
          Systematic Reviews


          1.2           THE REVIEW PROTOCOL

          1.2.1         Introduction

          The review protocol sets out the methods to be used in the review. Decisions about the
          review question, inclusion criteria, search strategy, study selection, data extraction,
          quality assessment, data synthesis and plans for dissemination should be addressed.
          Specifying the methods in advance reduces the risk of introducing bias into the review.
          For example, clear inclusion criteria avoids selecting studies according to whether their
          results reflect a favoured conclusion.
          If modifications to the protocol are required, these should be clearly documented and
          justified. Modifications may arise from a clearer understanding of the review question,
          and should not be made because of an awareness of the results of individual studies.
          Further information is given in Section 1.2.4 How to deal with protocol amendments
          during the review.
          Protocol development is often an iterative process that requires communication within
          the review team and advisory group and sometimes with the funder.


          1.2.2         Key areas to cover in a review protocol

          This section covers the development of the protocol and the information it should
          contain. The formulation of the review objectives from the review question and the
          setting of inclusion criteria are covered in detail here as these must be agreed before
          starting a review. The search strategy, study selection, data extraction, quality
          assessment, synthesis and dissemination are also mentioned briefly as they are
          essential parts of the review protocol. However, to avoid repetition, full details of the
          issues related to both protocol requirements and carrying out the review are provided in
          Section 1.3 Undertaking the review.


          1.2.2.1 Background

          The background section should communicate the key contextual factors and conceptual
          issues relevant to the review question. It should explain why the review is required and
          provide the rationale underpinning the inclusion criteria and the focus of the review
          question, for example justifying the choice of interventions to be considered in the review.


          1.2.2.2 Review question and inclusion criteria

          Systematic reviews should set clear questions, the answers to which will provide
          meaningful information that can be used to guide decision-making. These should be
          stated clearly and precisely in the protocol. Questions may be extremely specific or very
          broad, although if broad, it may be more appropriate to break this down into a series
          of related more specific questions. For example a review to ‘assess the evidence on the
          positive and negative effects of population-wide drinking water fluoridation strategies to
          prevent caries’,13 was undertaken by addressing five objectives:


          6



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 6                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:41
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


                  Objective 1: What are the effects of fluoridation of drinking water supplies on the
                  incidence of caries?
                  Objective 2: If water fluoridation is shown to have beneficial effects, what is the
                  effect over and above that offered by the use of alternative interventions and
                  strategies?
                  Objective 3: Does water fluoridation result in a reduction of caries across social
                  groups and between geographical locations, bringing equity?
                  Objective 4: Does water fluoridation have negative effects?
                  Objective 5: Are there differences in the effects of natural and artificial water
                  fluoridation?
               Where there are several objectives it may be necessary to prioritise by importance and
               likelihood of being able to answer the question. It may even be necessary to restrict the
               scope of the question to a level that is manageable within set resources. For clarity, the
               singular term ‘review question’ is used throughout the guidance.



                  Box 1.2: Example review objective and PICOS elements for a review
                  protocol
                  Review objective
                  The objective of this review is to assess the clinical effectiveness of treatments for
                  childhood retinoblastoma.14
                  Participants
                  Studies of participants diagnosed with retinoblastoma at the age of 18 years or under.
                  Studies of adults where childhood retinoblastoma was followed up into adulthood.
                  Studies of mixed diagnoses if outcomes were reported separately for children with
                  retinoblastoma.
                  Interventions
                  Any intervention or combination of interventions given for the treatment of retinoblastoma,
                  including (but not restricted to) enucleation, external beam radiotherapy, chemotherapy,
                  brachytherapy, cryotherapy, thermotherapy and photocoagulation.
                  Outcomes
                  Any clinical outcome, including (but not restricted to) survival, progression-free
                  survival, tumour response, preservation of the eye, visual acuity, disease remission
                  and adverse effects.
                  Study design
                  Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and controlled trials. However, it is not
                  anticipated that many studies of these designs will be available. Therefore, if
                  information from controlled trials is not available, cohort studies are eligible for
                  inclusion provided that data from a comparison group are reported.
                  Case series and case reports are excluded from the review owing to the high
                  potential for bias in these study designs. Case–control studies (except where
                  nested as part of a cohort study) and economic evaluations are also excluded.


                                                                                                                7



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 7                                                                                   8/1/09 09:28:42
          Systematic Reviews


          The review question can be framed in terms of the population,
          intervention(s), comparator(s) and outcomes of the studies that will        Population
          be included in the review. These elements of the review question,           Interventions
          together with study design, will then be refined in order to determine      Comparators
          the specific inclusion criteria that will be used when selecting            Outcomes
          studies for the review. Although both the acronyms PICO or PICOS            Study design
          are commonly used, here the term PICOS will be used throughout
          for consistency. In some situations, not all the elements will be relevant, for example
          not every review question will specify type of study design to be included. The use of
          PICOS in the context of reviews incorporating different study designs is discussed in the
          relevant chapters.
          The review question may be presented in general terms, for example, ‘What is the best
          treatment option for retinoblastoma?’ More often the actual question is discussed by
          the review team and an objective, or series of objectives, framed by the population,
          the intervention and the outcome(s) of interest agreed. For example, ‘The objective
          of this review is to assess the clinical effectiveness of treatments for childhood
          retinoblastoma.’14 The PICOS elements for this example are shown in Box 1.2.


          Population
          The included population should be relevant to the population to which the review
          findings will be applied, and explicit inclusion criteria should be defined in terms of the
          disease or condition of interest. Any specified restrictions should be clinically justifiable
          and relevant. Eligibility must usually be applied to the whole study and consideration of
          how to deal with studies that include a mixed population, some of whom are relevant
          to the review and some of whom are not, is required. If the inclusion criteria are broad,
          it may be informative to investigate effectiveness across subgroups of participants.
          However, in the absence of individual patient data (IPD), or very detailed reporting
          of data, broken down by participant characteristics, it is unlikely that inclusion can be
          restricted to particular types of participant or that detailed subgroup analyses will be
          possible. Where analysis of participant subgroups is planned, this should be specified in
          the protocol. Examples of factors that may be investigated include participants’ gender,
          age, disease severity, the presence of any co-morbidities, socio-economic status,
          ethnicity and geographical area.


          Interventions and comparators
          The nature of the interventions explored in the review may be framed in very broad
          terms like ‘psychosocial interventions’ or may be more specific such as ‘cognitive
          behavioural therapy’. Factors usually specified include the precise nature of the
          intervention (e.g. the method of administration of a drug), the person delivering the
          intervention (e.g. a community psychiatric nurse versus a non-professional carer) or
          setting in which the intervention is delivered (e.g. inpatient or outpatient).
          Where comparative studies are to be included, the protocol should also specify which
          comparators are eligible. As with the interventions, comparators should be carefully
          defined, so that the scope of a term such as ‘palliative care’ or ‘usual care’ is clear.
          The protocol should also specify whether any co-interventions carried out at the same
          time affect eligibility for inclusion; this applies to both the intervention(s) and the
          comparator(s).

          8



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 8                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:42
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Outcomes
               The success or failure of a therapeutic intervention will usually be assessed in terms
               of differences in mortality or morbidity in the populations treated. Primary outcomes
               are likely to include measures of mortality and morbidity but other outcomes may also
               be of importance, for example measures of quality of life and participants’ subjective
               experiences of pain or physical functioning.
               A review should explore a clearly defined set of relevant outcomes and it is important
               to justify each outcome included. Input from the advisory group and the findings from
               initial scoping searches and qualitative research may be helpful in deciding which
               outcomes to include.
               The use of surrogate outcomes may be misleading, giving an over or underestimate of
               the true clinical outcome.15 Decisions about whether to consider surrogate outcomes
               should therefore be informed by available evidence about associations between the
               surrogate (e.g. blood pressure) and the outcome of interest (e.g. stroke). Often,
               surrogate outcomes are included only where a study also reports a relevant clinical
               outcome.
               The review may also consider the timing of outcome assessment and possible adverse
               effects of the intervention. If the review is considering cost-effectiveness or economic
               issues as well as clinical effectiveness, the relevant economic outcomes should also be
               specified.
               Although the review may aim to consider a series of outcomes, it is rare that inclusion
               would be restricted to only those studies that report all the outcomes of interest. More
               usually inclusion criteria will require that included studies report the main outcome.


               Study design
               The types of study included in the review will play a major role in determining the
               reliability of the results and the validity of estimates of effect is linked to the study
               design. While some study designs are clearly more robust than others, this should not
               be the only factor in determining which types of study are eligible for inclusion.16
               Scoping searches may reveal that there are likely to be only a limited number of
               relevant randomised studies. In this case researchers have the option of justifying a
               decision to limit study design, bearing in mind that the identification of gaps in the
               current evidence base may in itself be a significant finding of the review. Alternatively,
               they can include quasi-experimental or observational studies. For reviews in some
               topic areas, these may be the only types of study available. The study design inclusion
               criteria given as an example in Box 1.2 have been set to take account of the paucity of
               experimental studies, as indicated by the scoping searches.
               In some cases a range of study designs may be needed to address different questions
               within the same review. For example, a review seeking to include information on
               adverse events will often include case-control and/or case-series (see Chapter 4) whilst
               a review incorporating participants’ experiences of an intervention is likely to include
               qualitative studies (see Chapter 6). The potential biases from the inclusion of a range of
               study designs are discussed in Section 1.3.4 Quality assessment.




                                                                                                            9



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 9                                                                              8/1/09 09:28:42
          Systematic Reviews


          1.2.2.3 Defining inclusion criteria

          The inclusion criteria should be set out in the protocol, to ensure that the boundaries of
          the review question are clearly defined. In the example in Box 1.2, the population to be
          studied was specified in the review question as those with ‘childhood’ retinoblastoma.
          In addition to qualifying ‘childhood’ as under 18, appropriate timeframes for disease
          progression and treatment and the possibilities of concurrent disease processes have
          been taken into account. In reviews of interventions relating to other diseases it may be
          necessary to be more specific about how the disease of interest will be verified, and to
          specify the disease stage and severity. In the simple example given in Box 1.2 the key
          interventions and outcomes of interest are listed.
          The nature of the intervention(s) and comparator(s) should be specified in detail. Whilst
          this may be more straightforward for drug interventions, more complex interventions
          may require detailed consideration of terms. For example, interventions such as ‘stress
          management’ or ‘relaxation’ may be defined differently by different study authors.
          Therefore researchers need to be clear about their own definitions and what elements
          are acceptable. An operational definition describing the content and delivery of the
          intervention will usually be helpful.
          The inclusion criteria should capture all studies of interest. If the criteria are too
          narrowly defined there is a risk of missing potentially relevant studies and the
          generalisability of the results may be reduced. On the other hand, if the criteria are too
          broad the review may contain information which is hard to compare and synthesise.17,18
          Inclusion criteria also need to be practical to apply; if they are too detailed, screening
          may become overly complicated and time consuming.


          Methodological quality
          As previously stated, a review should be based on the best quality evidence available
          (see Box 1.3). Whatever the study design(s) included, it should not be assumed that
          all studies of the same basic design (e.g. RCT) are equally well-conducted. The quality
          of the included studies should be formally assessed as this will impact on the reliability
          of the results and therefore on the conclusions drawn. Although quality assessment
          can sometimes be used to exclude studies that do not meet certain criteria, this is not
          standard practice and differential quality is more usually assessed at the synthesis
          stage through sensitivity analysis. For further information see Section 1.3.4 Quality
          assessment and Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis.



               Box 1.3: Hierarchy of study designs to assess the effects of
               interventions

               This list is not exhaustive, but covers the main study designs. Refer to the
               glossary for definitions of other study designs. Names and definitions may differ
               (e.g. randomised controlled trial is often called randomised clinical trial).
                                                                                        (Continued)




          10



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 10                                                                         8/1/09 09:28:43
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions




                  Randomised controlled trials
                  The simplest form of RCT is known as the parallel group trial which randomises
                  eligible participants to two or more groups, treats according to assignment, and
                  compares the groups with respect to outcomes of interest. Participants are allocated
                  to groups using both randomisation (allocation involves the play of chance) and
                  concealment (ensures that the intervention that will be allocated cannot be known
                  in advance). There are different types of randomised study designs, such as:
                       Randomised cross-over trials
                       Where all participants receive all the interventions; for example in a two
                       arm cross-over trial, one group receives intervention A before intervention
                       B, and the other group receive intervention B before intervention A. It is the
                       sequence of interventions that is randomised.
                       Cluster randomised trials
                       A cluster randomised trial is a trial where clusters of people rather than single
                       individuals are randomised to different interventions. For example, whole
                       clinics or geographical locations may be randomised to receive particular
                       interventions, rather than individuals.
                  Quasi-experimental studies
                  The main distinction between randomised and quasi-experimental studies is
                  the way in which participants are allocated to the intervention and control
                  groups; quasi-experimental studies do not use random assignment to create the
                  comparison groups.
                      Non-randomised controlled studies
                      Individuals are allocated to a concurrent comparison group, using methods
                      other than randomisation. The lack of concealed randomised allocation
                      increases the risk of selection bias.
                      Before-and-after study
                      Comparison of outcomes in study participants before and after the
                      introduction of an intervention. The before-and-after comparisons may be in
                      the same sample of participants or in different samples.
                      Interrupted time series
                      Interrupted time series designs are multiple observations over time that are
                      ‘interrupted’, usually by an intervention or treatment.
                  Observational studies
                  A study in which natural variation in interventions or exposure among participants
                  (i.e. not allocated by an investigator) is investigated to explore the effect of the
                  interventions or exposure on health outcomes.
                       Cohort study
                       A defined group of participants is followed over time and comparison is made
                       between those who did and did not receive an intervention.
                       Case-control study
                       Groups from the same population with (cases) and without (controls) a
                       specific outcome of interest, are compared to evaluate the association
                       between exposure to an intervention and the outcome.
                       Case series
                       Description of a number of cases of an intervention and the outcome (without
                       comparison with a control group). These are not comparative studies.

                                                                                                           11



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 11                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:43
          Systematic Reviews


          Language
          The ideal for most systematic reviews is to include all available relevant evidence. In
          principle, this includes studies written in any language to avoid the introduction of
          language bias into the review. Language bias arises because studies with statistically
          significant results that have been conducted in non-English speaking countries may be
          more likely to be published in English language journals than those with nonsignificant
          results.19 In addition, trials originating in certain countries have been found to have
          unusually high proportions of positive results.20
          Thus, if reviews include only studies reported in English, their results and inferences
          may be biased.19-21 Even if language bias does not influence summary effect estimates,
          it is likely to affect precision, because analysis will be based on fewer data.22 Whenever
          feasible, all relevant studies should be included regardless of language. However,
          realistically this is not always possible due to a lack of time, resources and facilities
          for translation. It is advisable therefore, to identify all non-English language papers,
          document their existence, but record ‘language’ as the reason for exclusion in cases
          where they cannot be dealt with. Although titles and abstracts are translated in many
          databases, full papers are usually only available in their primary language.
          When a decision is made to include non-English language studies, the review question
          should inform the decision about which languages are chosen, as studies of particular
          interventions and/or settings are more likely than others to be published in certain
          languages. An investigation of the inclusion of non-English language reports of RCTs
          in systematic reviews concluded that language restrictions do not appear to bias
          the estimates in reviews of conventional interventions, but may bias the results of
          complementary or alternative medicines.23 Researchers need to give careful thought
          as to whether imposing language restrictions may potentially bias the results of their
          individual review. When non-English language literature is included in a review, its
          influence on the estimation and precision of effect may be explored in a sensitivity
          analysis.


          Publication type/status
          Studies are not always published as full papers in peer-reviewed journals; they may
          be published as reports, book chapters, conference abstracts, theses or they may be
          informally reported or remain unpublished. Ideally a review should aim to include all
          relevant studies, regardless of publication status, in order to avoid publication bias.
          Publication bias occurs when the publication of a study is influenced by its results, hence
          inclusion of only published studies may overestimate the intervention effect.24
          There are practical issues that limit the inclusion of all studies regardless of publication
          type/status. Unpublished studies are likely to be harder to source, and more difficult
          to obtain, than published studies. The inclusion of conference abstracts and interim
          results should be considered, bearing in mind that contact with the study authors
          may be required to obtain full study details.25 The effects of including any data from
          abstracts alone should be carefully considered, since differences often occur between
          data reported in conference abstracts and their corresponding full reports, although
          differences in results are seldom large.26, 27 Also, it can be difficult to appraise study
          quality from minimal details provided in an abstract. Sensitivity analyses may be carried
          out to examine the effect of including data from conference abstracts.28


          12



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 12                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:43
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               The identification of ongoing studies is important for a number of reasons. They may
               provide a useful starting point for subsequent reviews and updates; they may also
               improve the quality of conclusions about future research by indicating where new
               research has already commenced. Information about ongoing studies may be available
               as ‘partially published research’ like conference abstracts – these can be classified as
               ongoing studies which may contribute to future reviews.29


               1.2.2.4 Identifying research evidence

               A preliminary search strategy for identifying relevant research should be included in
               the protocol. This should specify the databases and additional sources that will be
               searched, and also the likely search terms to be used. The search strategy should be
               constructed to take into account PICOS, although the outcome(s) of studies and/or
               study design are not always used. Incorporating decisions about publication status and
               language restrictions also needs to be made at this stage. In reviews of one year or
               more duration, or reviews in rapidly evolving fields, provision for repeating the searches
               towards the end of the review process should also be considered. In addition it may
               be useful to carry out current awareness searches to identify relevant papers as they
               are published. The approach taken will depend on the question and the topic, and also
               on the available time and resources. It is usual to include in the protocol details of the
               software that will be used to manage references. Further information is given in Section
               1.3.1 Identifying research evidence for systematic reviews.


               1.2.2.5 Study selection

               Study selection is usually conducted in two stages: an initial screening of titles and
               abstracts against the inclusion criteria to identify potentially relevant papers followed
               by screening of the full papers identified as possibly relevant in the initial screening.
               The protocol should specify the process by which decisions on the selection of studies
               will be made. This should include the number of researchers who will screen titles and
               abstracts and then full papers, and the method for resolving disagreements about study
               eligibility. Section 1.3.2 Study selection contains more information.


               1.2.2.6 Data extraction

               The protocol should outline the information that will be extracted from studies
               identified for inclusion in the review and provide details of any software to be used for
               recording the data. As with study selection the protocol should state the procedure
               for data extraction including the number of researchers who will extract the data
               and how discrepancies will be resolved. The protocol should also specify whether
               authors of primary studies will be contacted to provide missing or additional data. If
               foreign language papers are to be included, it may be necessary to specify translation
               arrangements. Further information is given in Section 1.3.3 Data extraction.




                                                                                                       13



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 13                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:44
          Systematic Reviews


          1.2.2.7 Quality assessment

          The protocol should provide details of the method of study appraisal to be used,
          including examples of the specific quality criteria. Details of how the study appraisal is
          to be used should be specified, for example whether the results will inform sensitivity
          analyses. The protocol should also specify the process for conducting the appraisal
          of study quality, the number of researchers involved, and how disagreements will be
          resolved. For a detailed discussion of these issues see Section 1.3.4 Quality assessment.


          1.2.2.8 Data synthesis

          As far as possible, the protocol should specify the strategy for data synthesis. It should
          state whether a meta-analysis is planned, although whether a planned meta-analysis
          will ultimately prove possible will depend on the studies and data that are available. As
          analyses will depend on what data are available, and because it is difficult to anticipate
          all of the statistical issues that may arise, it can be difficult to pre-specify full details of
          the planned synthesis. However, the protocol should outline how heterogeneity will be
          explored and quantified, under what circumstances a meta-analysis would be considered
          appropriate and whether a fixed or random-effects model or both would be used. Where
          appropriate, the approach to narrative synthesis should also be outlined. The protocol
          should also specify the outcomes of interest and what effect measures will be used. Any
          planned subgroup or sensitivity analyses or investigation of publication bias should also
          be described. Further information is given in Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis.


          1.2.2.9 Dissemination

          Dissemination of findings is an integral part of the review process and fundamental to
          ensuring that the essential messages from the review reach the appropriate audiences.
          It is helpful to consider how the review findings will be disseminated from as early a
          stage as possible to allow adequate time for planning and development and to ensure
          that the proposed activities are properly resourced. Details are given in Section 1.3.8
          Disseminating the findings of systematic reviews.


          1.2.3         Approval of the draft protocol

          Some commissioning or funding bodies may require that they formally approve
          the protocol, and will provide input to the draft protocol, in addition to the other
          stakeholders, such as clinical and methodological experts, patient groups and service
          users, who may be consulted. For commissioned reviews, even where it is not a specific
          requirement, it can be useful to communicate with the commissioner at the protocol
          development stage. This will help to ensure that the protocol meets the commissioning
          brief or where the review question or the scope of the project has been altered, that this
          is agreed before work commences.




          14



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 14                                                                               8/1/09 09:28:44
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.2.4        How to deal with protocol amendments during the review

               Sticking rigidly to a protocol when it becomes apparent that a change of direction
               is required, can result in a review that is not useful to end users. It is possible that
               consideration of the primary research may raise questions which were not anticipated
               at the protocol stage. Where this results from a clearer understanding of the review
               question, it can be appropriate to carry out documented and justified amendments to
               the protocol. In the report of the review findings it is helpful to distinguish between
               the initial review question and any subsequent amendments. It is never appropriate to
               modify the protocol because of awareness of the results of individual studies, as this is
               likely to introduce bias and affect the validity of the review’s conclusions.
               Many reviews undergo protocol modification.30 Where modifications are a possibility,
               the implications for the review process and workload should be considered carefully.
               In particular, the likely impact on the literature search should be assessed, as it may
               require modification and running again. Data extraction forms may also need to be
               amended, and any data that have already been extracted might require some re-
               working. Protocol amendments should be documented in a protocol addendum and in
               the final report of the review.



                  Summary: The review protocol

                  •     The protocol sets out in advance the methods to be used in the review with
                        the aim of minimizing bias.
                  •     The background section of the protocol should communicate the key
                        contextual and conceptual factors relevant to the review question and provide
                        the justification for the review.
                  •     The protocol should specify the review question.
                  •     Study inclusion and exclusion criteria should be clearly defined using the
                        relevant PICOS elements.
                  •     The protocol should also specify the methods which will be used to:
                        • Identify research evidence
                        • Select studies for inclusion
                        • Data extract included studies
                        • Quality assess included studies
                        • Synthesise results
                        • Disseminate the review findings
                  •     In cases when it becomes apparent that a modification to the protocol is
                        required, protocol amendments should be clearly documented and justified.




                                                                                                         15



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 15                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:44
          Systematic Reviews


          1.3           UNDERTAKING THE REVIEW

          1.3.1         Identifying research evidence for systematic reviews

          This section describes how to undertake a systematic search using a range of methods
          to identify studies, manage the references retrieved by the searches, obtain documents
          and write up the search process. Practical examples of constructing search strategies
          are given in Appendix 2, and Appendix 3 provides examples of how the search should
          be documented. Issues around the identification of research evidence that are specific
          to review type such as adverse effects or clinical tests are discussed in the relevant
          chapters.
          Conducting a thorough search to identify relevant studies is a key factor in minimizing
          bias in the review process. The search process should be as transparent as possible and
          documented in a way that enables it to be evaluated and reproduced.
          Studies can be located using a combination of the following approaches:

               •    Searching electronic databases
               •    Visually scanning reference lists from relevant studies
               •    Handsearching key journals and conference proceedings
               •    Contacting study authors, experts, manufacturers, and other organisations
               •    Searching relevant Internet resources
               •    Citation searching
               •    Using a project Internet site to canvas for studies

          1.3.1.1 Minimizing publication and language biases

          Decisions about where and how to search could unintentionally introduce bias into
          the review, so the team needs to consider, and try to minimize, the possible impact
          of search limitations. For example, restricting the searching to the use of electronic
          databases, which consist mainly of references to published journal articles, could result
          in the review being subject to publication bias as this approach is unlikely to identify
          studies that have not been published in peer reviewed journals. Wider searching is
          needed to identify research results circulated as reports or discussion papers. The
          identification of grey literature, such as unpublished papers, is difficult, but some are
          included on databases such as NTIS (National Technical Information Service) and
          HMIC (Health Management Information Consortium). Libraries of specialist research
          organisations and professional societies may also provide access to collections of grey
          literature.
          Searching databases and registers that include unpublished studies, such as records
          of ongoing research, conference proceedings and theses, can reduce the impact of
          publication bias. Conference proceedings provide information on both research in
          progress and completed research. Conference abstracts are recorded in some major
          bibliographic databases such as BIOSIS Previews, as well as in dedicated databases
          such as Index to Scientific and Technical proceedings, ZETOC, and the Conference
          Papers Index.31-34 It is also worth consulting catalogues from major libraries, for


          16



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 16                                                                        8/1/09 09:28:44
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               example the British Library and the US National Library of Medicine. The abstracts in
               conference proceedings may only give limited information, and there can be differences
               between data presented in an abstract and that included in a final report.35, 36 For
               these reasons, researchers should try to acquire the full report, if there is one, before
               considering whether to include the results in a systematic review.
               As already discussed, limiting searches to English language papers can introduce
               language bias. Large bibliographic databases, such as MEDLINE and EMBASE, do include
               a small number of non-English language journals.37 Using additional databases such
               as LILACS (Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature) that contain
               collections of non-English language research can minimize potential language bias.


               1.3.1.2 Searching electronic databases

               The selection of electronic databases to search will depend upon the review topic.
               Lists of databases are available from libraries and from database providers, such as
               Dialog and Wolters Kluwer, while subject experts will be familiar with the bibliographic
               databases in their field.
               For reviews of health care interventions, MEDLINE and EMBASE are the databases most
               commonly used to identify studies. The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
               (CENTRAL) includes details of published articles taken from bibliographic databases and
               other published and unpublished sources.38 There are other databases with a narrower
               focus that could be equally appropriate. These include PsycINFO (psychology and
               psychiatry), AMED (complementary medicine), MANTIS (osteopathy and chiropractic)
               and CINAHL (nursing and allied health professions). If the topic includes social care
               there are a range of databases available including ASSIA (Applied Social Sciences
               Index and Abstracts), CSA Sociological Abstracts, and CSA Social Services Abstracts,
               that could be used. The databases referred to above are all subject-based but there
               are others, such as AgeInfo, Ageline and ChildData, that focus on a specific population
               group that could be relevant to the review topic.
               Due to the diversity of questions addressed by systematic reviews, there can be no
               agreed standard for what constitutes an acceptable search in terms of the number of
               databases searched. For example, if the review is on a cross-cutting public health topic
               such as housing and health it is advisable to search a wider range of databases than if
               the review is of a pharmaceutical intervention for a known health condition (see
               Chapter 3, Section 3.3 Identifying research evidence).


               1.3.1.3 Searching other sources

               In addition to searching electronic databases, published and unpublished research may
               also be obtained by using one or more of the following methods.


               Scanning reference lists of relevant studies
               Browsing the reference lists of papers (both primary studies and reviews) that have
               been identified by the database searches may identify further studies of interest.



                                                                                                          17



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 17                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:45
          Systematic Reviews


          Handsearching key journals
          Handsearching involves scanning the content of journals, conference proceedings and
          abstracts, page by page. It is an important way of identifying very recent publications
          that have not yet been included and indexed by electronic databases or of including
          articles from journals that are not indexed by electronic databases.39 Handsearching
          can also ensure complete coverage of journal issues, including letters or commentaries,
          which may not be indexed by databases. It can also compensate for poor or inaccurate
          database indexing that can result in even the most carefully constructed strategy failing
          to identify relevant studies. Selecting which journals to handsearch can be done by
          analysing the results of the database searches to identify the journals that contain the
          largest number of relevant studies.


          Searching trials registers
          Trials can be identified by searching one or more of the many trials registers that exist.
          It can be a particularly useful approach to identifying unpublished or ongoing trials.
          Many of the registers are available on the Internet and some of the larger ones, such
          as www.ClinicalTrials.gov and www.who.int/trialsearch/, include the facility to search
          by drug name or by condition. While some registers are disease specific, others collect
          together trials from a specific country or region. Pharmaceutical companies may also
          make information about trials they have conducted available from their websites.


          Contacting experts and manufacturers
          Research groups and other experts as well as manufacturers may be useful sources
          of research not identified by the electronic searches, and may also be able to supply
          information about unpublished or ongoing research. Contacting relevant research
          centres or specialist libraries is another way of identifying potential studies. While these
          methods can all be useful, they are also time consuming and offer no guarantee of
          obtaining relevant information.
          After a thorough and systematic search has been conducted, and relevant studies
          have been identified, topic experts can be asked to check the list to identify any known
          missing studies.


          Searching relevant Internet resources
          Internet searching can be a useful means of retrieving grey literature, such as
          unpublished papers, reports and conference abstracts. Identifying and scanning specific
          relevant websites will usually be more practical than using a general search engine such
          as ‘Google’.
          Reviews of transport and ‘welfare to work’ programmes have reported how Internet
          searching of potentially relevant websites was effective in identifying additional studies
          to those retrieved from databases.40, 41 It is worth considering using the Internet when
          investigating a topic area where it is likely that studies have been published informally
          rather than in a journal indexed in a bibliographic database.
          Internet searching should be carried out in as structured a way as possible and the
          procedure documented (see Appendix 3).



          18



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 18                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:45
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Citation searching
               Citation searching involves selecting a number of key papers already identified for
               inclusion in the review and then searching for articles that have cited these papers. This
               approach should identify a cluster of related, and therefore highly relevant, papers.
               As this is in effect a search forward through time, citation searching is not suitable for
               identifying recent papers as they cannot have been referenced by other older papers.
               Citation searching used to be limited to using the indexes Science Citation Index
               Expanded, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Arts & Humanities Citation Index,. but
               other resources (including CINAHL, PsycINFO and Google Scholar) now include cited
               references in their records so these are also available for citation searching. Using
               similar services offered by journals such as the BMJ can also be helpful.


               Using a project Internet site to canvas for studies
               Where it has been agreed that a dedicated website should be set up for the review,
               for example as part of the overall dissemination strategy, this can be used to canvas
               for unpublished data/grey literature. Inclusion of an email contact address allows
               interested parties to submit information about relevant research. Posting the inclusion
               and exclusion criteria on the website may help to ensure submissions are appropriate.
               Throughout the review process the website should be continually updated with
               information about the studies identified. Personal responses should be sent to all
               respondents and where appropriate submitted material should be included in the library
               of references. Further details about dedicated project websites can be found in Section
               1.3.8 Disseminating the findings of systematic reviews.
               This approach should probably only be considered for ‘high profile’ reviews and then it
               should be as an adjunct to active canvassing for unpublished/grey literature.


               1.3.1.4 Constructing the search strategy for electronic databases

               Search strategies are explicitly designed to be highly sensitive so as many potentially
               relevant studies as possible are retrieved. Consequently the searches tend to retrieve
               a large number of records that do not meet the inclusion criteria. While it is possible
               to increase the precision of a search strategy, and so reduce the number of irrelevant
               papers retrieved, this may lead to relevant studies being missed.42
               Constructing an effective combination of search terms involves breaking down the
               review question into ‘concepts’. Using the Population, Intervention, Comparator, and
               Outcomes elements from PICOS can help to structure the search, but it is not essential
               that every element is used. For example it may be better not to use terms for the
               outcomes since inclusion might mean that the database being searched fails to show
               relevant studies simply because the outcome is not mentioned prominently enough in
               the record, even though the study measured it. For each of the elements used, it is
               important to consider all the possible alternative terms. For example a drug intervention
               may be known by a generic name and one or more proprietary names. Advice should be
               sought from the topic experts on the review team and advisory group.
               For a detailed discussion of how to structure a search from a review question, including
               the use of search filters for study design, see Appendix 2.


                                                                                                         19



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 19                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:45
          Systematic Reviews


          1.3.1.5 Text mining

          Text mining is a rapidly developing approach to utilizing the large amount of published
          text now available. Its potential use in systematic reviews is currently being explored
          and it may in future be an additional useful way of identifying relevant studies.43, 44
          The aim of text mining is to identify connections between seemingly unrelated facts
          to generate new ideas or hypotheses. A number of processes are involved in the
          technique: a) Information Retrieval identifies documents to match a user’s query; b)
          Natural Language Processing provides linguistic data needed to perform c) Information
          Extraction, the process of automatically obtaining structured data from an unstructured
          natural language document; and d) Data Mining, the process of identifying patterns in
          large sets of data.45, 46 In future this approach may be helpful in automatically screening
          and ranking large numbers of potentially eligible studies prior to assessment by the
          researchers.
          There are a variety of text mining tools available, for example TerMine and Acromine47
          are tools dealing with term extraction and variation. Also of interest are KLEIO,48
          which provides advanced searching facilities across MEDLINE and FACTA, which finds
          associated concepts using text analysis.49 Further information about text mining and
          the use of these tools can be found on the National Centre for Text Mining website
          (www.nactem.ac.uk/).


          1.3.1.6 Updating literature searches

          Depending on the scope and timescale of the review, an update of the literature
          searches towards the end of the project may be required. If the initial searches were
          carried out some time before the final analysis is undertaken (e.g. six months) it may
          be necessary to re-run the searches to ensure that no recent papers are missed. To do
          this successfully the date the original search was conducted and the years covered by
          the search must have been recorded.
          When doing update searches the update date field should be used rather than the
          actual date. This ensures that anything added to the database since the original search
          was conducted will be identified. If the database has added a lot of older material (e.g.
          from 1967) this will be removed by using the original date limits (e.g. 1990-2008) in
          combination with the update date field. For databases that do not include an update
          date field it may be better to run the whole search again and then use reference
          management software to remove those records that have already been identified and
          assessed.


          1.3.1.7 Current awareness

          If a review is covering an area where there is rapid change or if a major study is
          expected to report its findings in the near future, setting up current awareness alerts
          can ensure that new papers are identified as soon as they become available. Options for
          current awareness include e-mail alerts from journals and RSS feeds from databases or
          websites.



          20



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 20                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:46
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.1.8 Managing references

               To ensure the retrieved records are managed efficiently the team should agree working
               practices. For example, who will screen the references and record decisions about
               which documents to obtain and how to code these decisions; whether decisions about
               rejecting or obtaining documents should be made blind to others’ decisions; and how to
               store documents received. In addition, one member of the team should be responsible
               for identifying and removing duplicate references, ordering inter-library loans, recording
               the receipt of documents, and following up non-arrivals.
               Using bibliographic software such as EndNote, Reference Manager or ProCite to record
               and manage references will help in documenting the process, streamline document
               management and make the production of reference lists for reports and journal papers
               easier. EPPI-Reviewer, a web-based review management programme, also incorporates
               reference management functions.4, 50 Alternatively it is possible to construct a database
               of references using a database package such as Microsoft Access or a word processing
               package. By creating a ‘library’ (database) of references, information can be shared
               by the whole review team, duplicated references can be identified and deleted more
               easily, and customised fields can be created where ordering decisions can be recorded.42
               Specialised bibliographic management software packages have the facility to import
               references from electronic databases into the library and interact with word processing
               packages so bibliographies can be created in a variety of styles.
               When an electronic library of references is used, it is important to establish in advance
               clear rules about which team members can add or amend records in the library, and
               that consistent terminology is used to record decisions. It is usually preferable to have
               one person from the team responsible for the library of references.


               1.3.1.9 Obtaining documents

               Obtaining a large number of papers in a short space of time can be very labour
               intensive. The procedure for acquiring documents will vary according to organisational
               arrangements and will depend on issues such as cost, what resources are available,
               and whether access to an inter-library loan network is available. Most libraries in the
               United Kingdom will be able to obtain articles from the British Library Document Supply
               Centre’s collection although membership is required and there is a charge per article.
               Many journals are available in full text on the Internet, although a subscription may
               be required before articles can be downloaded. It may be cost-effective to travel to a
               particular library to obtain material if a large number of references are required and are
               available. The information specialist on the team is likely to know about networks of
               associated libraries and electronic resources that can be used for obtaining documents.51


               1.3.1.10 Documenting the search

               The search process should be reported in sufficient detail so that it could be re-run at
               a later date. The easiest way to document the search is to record the process and the
               results contemporaneously. The decisions reached during development and any changes
               or amendments made should be recorded and explained. It is important to record all
               searches, including Internet searches, handsearching and contact with experts.

                                                                                                       21



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 21                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:46
          Systematic Reviews


          Providing the full detail of searches helps future researchers to re-run or update the
          searches and enables readers to evaluate the thoroughness of searching. The write up
          of the search should include information about the databases and interfaces searched
          (including the dates covered), full detailed search strategies (including any justifications
          for date or language restrictions) and the number of records retrieved.
          When systematic reviews are reported in journal articles, limits on the word count
          may make it impossible to provide full details of the searches. In these circumstances
          as much information as possible should be provided within the available space. For
          example, ‘We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL’ is more helpful to the reader
          than ‘We conducted computer searches’. Many journals now have an electronic
          version of the publication where the full search details can be provided. Alternatively,
          the published report can include the review team’s contact details so full details of
          the search strategies can be requested. If a detailed report is being written for the
          commissioners of the review, the full search details should be included.
          The use of flow charts to demonstrate how relevant papers are identified is detailed in
          Section 1.3.2 Study selection. Guidance on documenting the different aspects of the
          searching process is given in Appendix 3.



               Summary: Identifying research evidence for systematic reviews

               •    The search for studies should be comprehensive.
               •    The extent of searching is determined by the research question and the
                    resources available to the research team.
               •    Thorough searching is best achieved by using a variety of search methods
                    (electronic and manual) and by searching multiple, possibly overlapping
                    resources.
               •    Most of the searching is likely to take place at the beginning of the review with
                    an update search towards the end.
               •    Using bibliographic software to record and manage references will help in
                    documenting the process, streamline document management and make the
                    production of reference lists for reports and journal papers easier.
               •    The search process should be documented in full or details provided of where
                    the strategy can be obtained.




          22



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 22                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:46
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.2        Study selection

               Literature searching may result in a large number of potentially eligible records that
               need to be assessed for inclusion against predetermined criteria, only a small proportion
               of which may eventually be included in the review. The process for selecting studies
               should be explicit and conducted in such a way as to minimize the risk of errors and
               bias. This section explains the steps involved and the issues to be considered when
               planning and conducting study selection.


               1.3.2.1 Process for study selection

               The process by which decisions on the selection of studies will be made should be
               specified in the protocol, including who will carry out each stage and how it will be
               performed. The aim of selection is to ensure that all relevant studies are included in the
               review.
               It is important that the selection process should minimize biases, which can occur
               when the decision to include or exclude certain studies may be affected by pre-formed
               opinions.52-56 The process for study selection therefore needs to be explicit, objective
               and minimize the potential for errors of judgement. It should be documented clearly
               to ensure it is reproducible (see Figure 1.1). The selection of studies from electronic
               databases is usually conducted in two stages:
               Stage 1: a first decision is made based on titles and, where available, abstracts. These
               should be assessed against the predetermined inclusion criteria. If it can be determined
               that an article does not meet the inclusion criteria then it can be rejected straightaway.
               It is important to err on the side of over-inclusion during this first stage. The review
               question and the subsequent specification of the inclusion and exclusion criteria are
               likely to determine ease of rejection in this first stage. Where the question and criteria
               are tightly focused then it is usually easier to be confident that the rejected studies are
               not relevant. Rejected citations fall into two main categories; those that are clearly not
               relevant and those that address the topic of interest but fail on one or more criteria
               such as population. For those in the first category it is usually adequate to record as
               an irrelevant study, without a reason why. For those in the second category it is useful
               to record why the study failed to meet the inclusion criteria, as this increases the
               transparency of the selection process. Where abstracts are available the amount and
               usefulness of the information to the decision-making process often varies according
               to database and journal. Structured abstracts such as those produced by the BMJ are
               particularly useful at this stage of the review process.
               Stage 2: for studies that appear to meet the inclusion criteria, or in cases when a
               definite decision cannot be made based on the title and/or abstract alone, the full paper
               should be obtained for detailed assessment against the inclusion criteria.
               Some searching methods provide access to full papers directly, for example
               handsearching journals and contact with research groups, in which case assessment for
               inclusion is a one stage process.
               Even when explicit inclusion criteria are specified, decisions concerning the inclusion
               of individual studies can remain subjective. Familiarity with the topic area and an
               understanding of the definitions being used are usually important.

                                                                                                         23



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 23                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:46
          Systematic Reviews


          The reliability of the decision process is increased if all papers are independently
          assessed by more than one researcher, and the decisions shown to be reproducible. One
          study found that on average a single researcher is likely to miss 8% of eligible studies,
          whereas a pair of researchers working independently would capture all eligible studies.57
          Assessment of agreement is particularly important during the pilot phase (described
          later in this section), when evidence of poor agreement should lead to a revision of
          the selection criteria or an improvement of their coding. Agreement between assessors
          (inter-assessor reliability) may be formally assessed mathematically using a Kappa
          statistic (a measure of chance-corrected agreement).58
          The process for resolving disagreements between assessors should be specified in the
          protocol. Many disagreements may be simple oversights, whilst others may be matters
          of interpretation. These disagreements should be discussed and, where possible,
          resolved by consensus after referring to the protocol; if necessary a third person may
          be consulted.
          If resources and time allow, the lists of included and excluded studies may be discussed
          with the advisory group. In addition, these lists can be posted on a dedicated website
          with a request for feedback on any missing studies, an approach used in a review of
          water fluoridation.59 For further information see Section 1.3.8 Disseminating the findings
          of systematic reviews.


          Piloting the study selection process
          The selection process should be piloted by applying the inclusion criteria to a sample
          of papers in order to check that they can be reliably interpreted and that they classify
          the studies appropriately. The pilot phase can be used to refine and clarify the inclusion
          criteria and ensure that the criteria can be applied consistently by more than one
          person. Piloting may also give an indication of the likely time needed for the full
          selection process.


          Masking/blinding
          Judgements about inclusion may be affected by knowledge of the authorship,
          institutions, journal titles and year of publication, or the results and conclusions of
          articles.60 Blind assessment may be possible by removing such identifying information,
          but the gain should be offset against the time and effort required to disguise the source
          of each article. Several studies have found that masking author, institution, journal
          name and study results is of limited value in study selection.61, 62 Therefore, the general
          opinion is that unmasked assessment by two independent researchers is acceptable.


          Dealing with lack of information
          Sometimes the amount of information reported about a study is insufficient to make a
          decision about inclusion, and it can be helpful to contact study authors to ask for more
          details. However, this requires time and resources, and the authors may not reply,
          particularly if the study is old. If authors are to be contacted it may be advisable to
          decide in advance how much time will be given to allow them to reply. If contacting
          authors is not practical then the studies in question could be excluded and listed as
          ‘potentially relevant studies’. If a decision is made to include such studies, the influence
          on the results of the review can be checked in a sensitivity analysis.

          24



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 24                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:47
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Dealing with duplication
               It is important to look for duplicate publications of research results to ensure they are
               not treated as separate studies in the review. Multiple papers may be published for
               a number of reasons including: translations; results at different follow-up periods or
               reporting of different outcomes. However, it is not always easy to identify duplicates as
               they are often covert (i.e. not cross referenced to one another) and neither authorship
               nor sample size are reliable criteria for identification of duplication.63 Estimates of
               prevalence of duplicate publication range from 1.4% to 28%,64 and studies have been
               found to have up to five duplicate reports.63 Multiple reports from the same study may
               include identical samples with different outcomes reported or increasing samples with
               the same outcomes reported.
               Multiple reporting can lead to biased results, as studies with significant results are
               more likely to be published or presented more frequently, leading to an overestimation
               of treatment effects when findings are combined.65 When multiple reports of a
               study are identified these should be treated as a single study but reference made
               to all the publications. It may be worthwhile comparing multiple publications for
               any discrepancies, which could be highlighted and the study authors contacted for
               clarification.


               Documenting decisions
               It is important to have a record of decisions made for each article. This may be in paper
               form, attached to paper copies of the articles, or the selection process may be partially
               or wholly computerised. If the search results are provided in electronic format, they
               can be imported into a reference management program such as EndNote, Reference
               Manager or ProCite which stores, displays and enables organisation of the records,
               and allows basic inclusion decisions to be made and recorded (in custom fields). For
               more complex selection procedures, where several decisions and comments need to be
               recorded, a database program such as Microsoft Access may be of use. There are also
               programs specifically designed for carrying out systematic reviews which include aids for
               the selection process, such as TrialStat SRS and EPPI-Reviewer.


               Reporting study selection
               A flow chart showing the number of studies/papers remaining at each stage is a simple
               and useful way of documenting the study selection process. Recommendations for
               reporting and presentation of a flow chart when reporting systematic reviews with
               or without a meta-analysis have been developed by the PRISMA group, formerly the
               QUOROM group. Publication of these guidelines is forthcoming.66, 67 In the meantime, the
               existing QUOROM guidelines for the reporting meta-analysis of RCTs,9 provide guidance
               that is equally applicable to all systematic reviews. Figure 1.1 is an example of a flow
               chart from a systematic review of treatments for childhood retinoblastoma.14
               A list of studies excluded from the review should also be reported where possible,
               giving the reasons for exclusion. This list may be included in the report of the review as
               an appendix. In general, this list is most informative if it is restricted to ‘near misses’
               (i.e. those studies that only narrowly failed to meet inclusion criteria and that readers
               might have expected to see included) rather than all the research evidence identified.
               Decisions to exclude studies may be reached at the title and abstract stage or at the full
               paper stage.

                                                                                                       25



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 25                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:47
          Systematic Reviews



                                             Titles and abstracts
                                           identified and screened
                                                   n = 3114


                                                                            Excluded n = 2342



                                                                          Unable to obtain/further
                                                                       information required to make
                                                                            assessment n = 14


                                           Full copies retrieved and
                                            assessed for eligibility
                                                    n = 760

                                                                            Excluded n = 665

                                                                       Not relevant design n = 401
               Studies identified from
                contact with experts                                   Background discussion n = 209
                        n=1
                                                                       No outcome/intervention or
              Studies identified from                                      treatment n = 27
             searching in reference list
                       n=1                                                   No patients with
                                                                          retinoblastoma n = 21
               Publications providing
             additional information to                                  Duplicate publication n = 7
             located published studies
                        n=3

                                                                         Foreign language n = 16


                                             Publications meeting
                                               inclusion criteria
                                                    n = 77


                                                                             Excluded n = 35

                                                                        No clear comparison group
                                                                                  n = 33

                                                                          Outcomes not reported
                                                                       separately for each treatment
                                                                                   n=1

                                                                        No actual data available on
                                            Publications included in     treatment outcome n = 1
                                              the review n = 42

                                              Number of studies
                                            included in the review
                                                   n = 31


          Figure 1.1: Flow chart of study selection process14


          26



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 26                                                                         8/1/09 09:28:47
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions




                  Summary: Study selection

                  •     In order to minimize bias, studies should be assessed for inclusion using
                        selection criteria that flow directly from the review question and that have
                        been piloted to check that they can be reliably applied.
                  •     Study selection is a staged process involving sifting through the citations
                        located by the search, retrieving full reports of potentially relevant citations
                        and, from their assessment, identifying those studies that fulfil the inclusion
                        criteria.
                  •     Parallel independent assessments should be conducted to minimize the risk
                        of errors. If disagreements occur between assessors, they should be resolved
                        according to a predefined strategy using consensus and arbitration as
                        appropriate.
                  •     The study selection process should be documented, detailing reasons for
                        exclusion of studies that are ‘near-misses’.




                                                                                                           27



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 27                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:48
          Systematic Reviews


          1.3.3         Data extraction

          Data extraction is the process by which researchers obtain the necessary information
          about study characteristics and findings from the included studies. Data extraction
          requirements will vary from review to review, and the extraction forms should be
          tailored to the review question. The first stage of any data extraction is to plan the
          type of analyses and list the tables that will be included in the report. This will help to
          identify which data should be extracted. General guidance on the process is given here,
          but the specific details will clearly depend on the individual review topic.
          A sample data extraction form and details of the data extraction process should be
          included in the review protocol. A common problem at the protocol stage is that
          there may be limited familiarity with the topic area. This can lead to uncertainties, for
          example, about comparators and outcome measures. As a result, time can be wasted
          extracting unnecessary data and difficulties can arise when attempting to utilise and
          synthesise the data. Sufficient time early in the project should therefore be allocated to
          developing, piloting and refining the data extraction form.
          The extraction of data is linked to assessment of study quality in that both processes
          are often undertaken at the same time.
          Standardised data extraction forms can provide consistency in a systematic review,
          whilst reducing bias and improving validity and reliability.68 Use of an electronic form
          has the added advantage of being able to combine data extraction and data entry into
          one step, and to facilitate data analysis and the production of results tables for the final
          report.


          1.3.3.1 Design

          Integral to the design of the form is the category of data to be extracted. It may be
          numerical, fixed text such as yes/no, a ‘pick list’, or free text. However, the number of
          free text fields should be limited as much as possible to simplify the analysis of data.
          The form should be unambiguous and easy to use in order to minimize discrepancies.
          Instructions for completion should be provided and each field should have decision
          rules about coding data in order to avoid ambiguity and to aid consistent completion.
          Piloting the form is essential. Paper forms should only be used where access to
          direct completion of electronic forms is impossible, to reduce risks of error in data
          transcription.


          1.3.3.2 Content

          The nature of the data extracted will depend on the type of question being addressed
          and the types of study available. Box 1.4 gives an example of some of the information
          that might be extracted for a comparative study.
          The results to be extracted from each individual study may be reported in a variety
          of ways, and it is often necessary for a researcher to manipulate the available data
          into a common format. Manipulations of the reported findings are discussed in further
          detail in Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis, but can include using confidence intervals to


          28



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 28                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:48
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               determine standard errors or estimating the hazard ratio from a survival curve. Data
               can be categorised at this stage; however, it is advisable to extract as much of the
               reported data as is likely to be needed, and categorise at a later stage, so that detailed
               information is not lost during data extraction.


               1.3.3.3 Software

               EPPI-Reviewer is a web application that enables researchers to manage all stages of
               a review in a single location. RevMan and TrialStat SRS are other software packages
               that can be used in data extraction for systematic reviews. Other tools commonly used
               include general word processing packages, spreadsheets and databases.
               Whichever software package is used, ideally it should have the ability to provide
               different types of question coding. Some software will also allow researchers to develop
               quality control mechanisms for minimizing data entry errors, for example, by specifying
               ranges of valid values.


               1.3.3.4 Piloting data extraction

               Data extraction forms should be piloted on a sample of included studies to ensure that
               all the relevant information is captured and that resources are not wasted on extracting
               data not required. The consistency of the data extracted should be assessed to make
               sure that those extracting the data are interpreting the forms, and the draft instructions
               and decision rules about coding data, in the same way. This will help to reduce data
               extraction errors. The exporting, analysis and outputs of the data extraction forms
               should also be pilot tested where appropriate, on a small sample of included studies.
               This will ensure that the exporting of data works correctly and the outputs provide the
               information required for data analysis and synthesis.
               When using databases, piloting is particularly important as it becomes increasingly
               difficult to make changes once the template has been created and information has been
               entered into the database. Early production of the expected output is also the best way
               to check that the correct data structure has been set up.


               1.3.3.5 Process of data extraction

               Data extraction needs to be as unbiased and reliable as possible, however it is
               prone to human error and often subjective decisions are required. The number of
               researchers that will perform data extraction is likely to be influenced by constraints
               on time and resources. Ideally two researchers should independently perform the
               data extraction (the level of inter-rater agreement is often measured using a Kappa
               statistic58). As an accepted minimum, one researcher can extract the data with a
               second researcher independently checking the data extraction forms for accuracy and
               completeness. This method may result in significantly more errors than two researchers
               independently performing data extraction but may also take significantly less time.69
               Any disagreements should be noted and resolved by consensus among researchers
               or by arbitration by an additional independent researcher. A record of corrections or


                                                                                                       29



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 29                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:48
          Systematic Reviews


          amendments to data extraction forms should be kept for future reference, particularly
          where there is genuine ambiguity (internal inconsistency) which cannot be resolved
          after discussion with the study authors. If using an electronic data extraction form
          that does not keep a record of amendments, completed forms can be printed and
          amendments recorded manually, before correcting the electronic version.
          As with screening studies for inclusion, blinding researchers to the journal and author
          details has been recommended.70, 71 However, this is a time-consuming operation, may
          not alter the results of a review and is likely to be of limited value.61



               Box 1.4 Example information requirements for data extraction

               General information
               Researcher performing data extraction
               Date of data extraction
               Identification features of the study:
                   Record number (to uniquely identify study)
                   Author
                   Article title
                   Citation
                   Type of publication (e.g. journal article, conference abstract)
                   Country of origin
                   Source of funding
               Study characteristics
               Aim/objectives of the study
               Study design
               Study inclusion and exclusion criteria
               Recruitment procedures used (e.g. details of randomisation, blinding)
               Unit of allocation (e.g. participant, GP practice, etc.)
               Participant characteristics
               Characteristics of participants at the beginning of the study e.g.
                  Age
                  Gender
                  Ethnicity
                  Socio-economic status
                  Disease characteristics
                  Co-morbidities
               Number of participants in each characteristic category for intervention and control
               group(s) or mean/median characteristic values (record whether it is the number
               eligible, enrolled, or randomised that is reported in the study)
                                                                                        (Continued)




          30



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 30                                                                        8/1/09 09:28:48
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions




                  Intervention and setting
                  Setting in which the intervention is delivered
                  Description of the intervention(s) and control(s) (e.g. dose, route of
                  administration, number of cycles, duration of cycle, care provider, how the
                  intervention was developed, theoretical basis (where relevant))
                  Description of co-interventions
                  Outcome data/results
                  Unit of assessment/analysis
                  Statistical techniques used
                  For each pre-specified outcome:
                      Whether reported
                      Definition used in study
                      Measurement tool or method used
                      Unit of measurement (if appropriate)
                      Length of follow-up, number and/or times of follow-up measurements
                  For all intervention group(s) and control group(s):
                      Number of participants enrolled
                      Number of participants included in analysis
                      Number of withdrawals, exclusions, lost to follow-up
                      Summary outcome data e.g.
                             Dichotomous: number of events, number of participants
                             Continuous: mean and standard deviation
                  Type of analysis used in study (e.g. intention to treat, per protocol)
                  Results of study analysis e.g.
                      Dichotomous: odds ratio, risk ratio and confidence intervals, p-value
                      Continuous: mean difference, confidence intervals
                  If subgroup analysis is planned the above information on outcome data or results
                  will need to be extracted for each patient subgroup
                  Additional outcomes
                  Record details of any additional relevant outcomes reported
                  Costs
                  Resource use
                  Adverse events
                  NB: Notes fields can be useful for occasional pieces of additional information or
                  important comments that do not easily fit into the format of other fields.




                                                                                                      31



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 31                                                                        8/1/09 09:28:49
          Systematic Reviews


          Reviews that include only published studies may be at risk of overestimating the
          treatment effect. Including data from unpublished studies (or unpublished outcomes)
          is therefore important in minimizing bias. However, this can be time-consuming and
          the original data may no longer be available. Although those performing IPD meta-
          analyses,72 have generally been successful in obtaining data from the authors of
          unpublished studies, the same may not be true of other types of review. The practical
          difficulties of locating and obtaining information from unpublished studies may, for
          example, make the ideal of including relevant unpublished studies unachievable in
          the timescales available for many commissioned reviews. When information from
          unpublished studies is obtained, the published and unpublished material should be
          subjected to the same methodological evaluation.



               Summary: Data extraction

               •    Standardised data extraction forms provide consistency in a systematic
                    review, thereby potentially reducing bias, improving validity and reliability.
               •    Data extraction forms should be designed and developed with both the review
                    question and subsequent analysis in mind. Sufficient time should be allocated
                    early in the project for developing and piloting the data extraction forms.
               •    The data extraction forms should contain only information required
                    for descriptive purposes or for analyses later in the systematic review.
                    Information on study characteristics should be sufficiently detailed to allow
                    readers to assess the applicability of the findings to their area of interest.
               •    Data extraction needs to be unbiased and reliable, however it is prone to
                    human error and often subjective decisions are required. Clear instructions
                    and decision rules about coding data should be used.
               •    As a minimum, one researcher should extract the data with a second
                    researcher independently checking the data extraction forms for accuracy and
                    detail. If disagreements occur between assessors, they should be resolved
                    according to a predefined strategy using consensus and arbitration as
                    appropriate.




          32



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 32                                                                       8/1/09 09:28:49
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.4        Quality assessment

               1.3.4.1 Introduction

               Research can vary considerably in methodological rigour. Flaws in the design or conduct
               of a study can result in bias, and in some cases this can have as much influence on
               observed effects as that of treatment. Important intervention effects, or lack of effect,
               can therefore be obscured by bias.
               Recording the strengths and weaknesses of included studies provides an indication of
               whether the results have been unduly influenced by aspects of study design or conduct
               (essentially the extent to which the study results can be ‘believed’). Assessment of
               study quality gives an indication of the strength of evidence provided by the review
               and can also inform the standards required for future research. Ultimately, quality
               assessment helps answer the question of whether the studies are robust enough to
               guide treatment, prevention, diagnostic or policy decisions.
               Many useful books discuss the sources of bias in different study designs in detail, or
               provide an in-depth guide to critical appraisal.73-75 No single approach to assessing
               methodological quality is appropriate to all systematic reviews. The best approach will
               be determined by contextual, pragmatic and methodological considerations. However,
               the following sections describe the underlying principles of quality assessment and the
               key issues to consider.


               1.3.4.2 Defining quality

               Quality is a complex concept and the term is used in different ways. For example,
               a project using the Delphi consensus method with experts in the field of quality
               assessment of RCTs was unable to generate a definition of quality acceptable to all
               participants.76
               Taking a broad view, the aim of assessing study quality is to establish how near the
               ‘truth’ its findings are likely to be and whether the findings are of relevance in the
               particular setting or patient group of interest. Quality assessment of any study is likely
               to consider the following:

                  •     Appropriateness of study design to the research objective
                  •     Risk of bias
                  •     Other issues related to study quality
                        • Choice of outcome measure
                        • Statistical issues
                        • Quality of reporting
                        • Quality of the intervention
                        • Generalisability
               The importance of each of these aspects of quality will depend on the focus and nature
               of the review. For example, issues around statistical analysis are less important if
               the study data are to be re-analysed in a meta-analysis, and the quality of reporting
               is irrelevant where data (either individual patient or aggregate) and information are
               obtained directly from those responsible for the study.

                                                                                                        33



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 33                                                                              8/1/09 09:28:49
          Systematic Reviews


          Appropriateness of study design
          As discussed previously, types of study used to assess the effects of interventions can
          be arranged into a hierarchy, based broadly on their susceptibility to bias (Box 1.3).
          Although the RCT is considered the best study design to evaluate the effect of an
          intervention, in cases where it is unworkable or unethical to randomise participants (e.g.
          when evaluating the effects of smoking on health), researchers may instead have to
          use a quasi-experimental or an observational design. Simply grading studies using this
          hierarchy does not provide an adequate assessment of study quality, because it does
          not take into account variations in quality among studies of the same design. Even RCTs
          can be implemented in such a way that findings are likely to be seriously biased and
          therefore of little value in decision-making.
          It should be noted that the terminology used to describe study designs (e.g. cohort,
          prospective, retrospective, historical controls, etc.) can be ambiguous and used in
          different ways by different researchers. Therefore it is important to consider the
          individual aspects of the study design that may introduce bias rather than focussing
          on the descriptive label used. This is particularly important for the description of non-
          randomised studies.


          Risk of bias
          Bias refers to systematic deviations from the true underlying effect brought about by
          poor study design or conduct in the collection, analysis, interpretation, publication or
          review of data. Bias can easily obscure intervention effects, and differences in the risk
          of bias between studies can help explain differences in findings.
          Internal validity is the extent to which an observed effect can be truly attributed to the
          intervention being evaluated, rather than to flaws in the design or conduct of the study.
          Any such flaws can increase the risk of bias.
          The types of bias, and the ways in which they can be minimized by each type of study
          design, are described below.


          Randomised controlled trials
          The RCT is generally considered to be the most appropriate study design for evaluating
          the effects of an intervention. This is because, when properly conducted, it limits
          the risk of bias. The simplest form of RCT is known as the parallel group trial which
          randomises eligible participants to two or more groups, treats according to assignment,
          and compares the groups with respect to outcomes of interest.
          Participants are allocated to groups using both randomisation (allocation involves the
          play of chance) and concealment (ensures that the intervention that will be allocated
          cannot be known in advance of assignment). When appropriately implemented, these
          aspects of design should ensure that the groups being compared are similar in all
          respects other than the intervention. The groups should be balanced for both known
          and unknown factors that might influence outcome, such that any observed differences
          should be attributable to the effect of the intervention rather than to intrinsic differences
          between the groups.




          34



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 34                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:49
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Allocation in this way avoids the influence of confounding, where an additional factor is
               associated both with receiving the intervention and with the outcome of interest. For
               example, babies who are breast fed are less likely to have gastrointestinal illnesses than
               those who are bottle fed. Though this might suggest evidence for the protective effect of
               breastfeeding, mothers who breast feed also tend to be of higher socio-economic status,
               which in itself is associated with a range of health benefits to the baby. Therefore,
               when evaluating any possible protective effects of breastfeeding socio-economic status
               should be considered as a potential confounding factor. In some cases, the possible
               confounding factor(s) may not be known or measurable. In an RCT, so long as a
               sufficient number of participants are assigned then the groups should be balanced with
               respect to both known and unknown potential confounding factors.
               Selection bias or allocation bias occurs where there are systematic differences between
               comparison groups in terms of prognosis or responsiveness to treatment. Concealed
               assignment prevents investigators being able to predict which intervention will be
               allocated next and using that information to select which participant receives which
               treatment. For example, clinicians may want to ’try out‘ the new intervention in patients
               with a poorer prognosis. If they succeed in doing this by knowing or correctly ‘guessing’
               the order of allocation, the intervention group will eventually contain more seriously ill
               participants than the comparison group, such that the intervention will probably appear
               less effective than if the two groups had been properly balanced.
               The most robust method for concealing the sequence of treatment allocation is a central
               telephone randomisation service, in which the care provider calls an independent trial
               service, registers the participant’s details and then discovers which intervention they
               are to be given. Similarly, an on-site computer-based randomisation system that is not
               readable until the time of allocation might be used. Envelope methods of randomisation,
               where allocation details are stored in pre-prepared envelopes, are less robust and
               more easily subverted than centralised methods. Where this method is adopted, sealed
               opaque sequentially numbered envelopes that are only opened in front of the participant
               being randomised should be used. Unfortunately, the methods which are used to ensure
               that the randomisation sequence remains concealed during implementation (frequently
               referred to as concealment of allocation) are often poorly reported making it difficult to
               discern whether the methods were susceptible to bias.
               Some studies, which may describe themselves as randomised, may allocate participants
               to groups on an alternating basis, or based on whether their date of birth is an odd or
               even number. Allocation in these studies is neither random nor concealed.
               Performance bias refers to systematic differences (apart from the intervention of
               interest) in the treatment or care given to comparison groups during the study and
               detection bias refers to systematic differences between groups in the way that outcomes
               are ascertained. The risk of these biases can be minimized by ensuring that people
               involved in the study are unaware of which groups participants have been assigned
               to (i.e. they are blinded or masked). Ideally, the participants, those administering the
               intervention, those assessing outcomes and those analysing the data should all be
               blinded. If not, the knowledge of which comparison group is which may consciously
               or unconsciously influence the behaviour of any of these people. The feasibility and/
               or success of blinding will partly depend on the intervention in question. There are
               situations where blinding is not possible owing to the nature of the intervention, for


                                                                                                      35



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 35                                                                         8/1/09 09:28:50
          Systematic Reviews


          example where a particular intervention has an obvious physiological effect whereas the
          comparator does not, and others where it may be unethical (e.g. sham surgery carries
          risks with no intended benefit). Methods of blinding for studies of drugs involve the use
          of pills and containers of identical size, shape and number (placebos). Sham devices
          can be used for many device interventions and for some procedural interventions sham
          procedures can be used (e.g. sham acupuncture). Blinding of outcome assessors is
          particularly important for more subjective outcome measures such as pain, but less
          important for objective measures such as mortality. Implementation of a blinding
          process does not however guarantee successful blinding in practice. In study reports,
          terms such as double-blind, triple-blind or single-blind can be used inconsistently77 and
          explicit reporting of blinding is often missing.78 It is important to clarify the exact details
          of the blinding process.
          A well-conducted RCT should have processes in place to achieve complete and good
          quality data,79 in order to avoid attrition bias. Attrition bias refers to systematic
          differences between the comparison groups in terms of participants withdrawing or
          being excluded from the study. Participants may withdraw or drop-out from a study
          because the treatment has intolerable adverse effects, or on the other hand, they may
          recover and leave for that reason. They may simply be lost to follow-up, or they may be
          withdrawn due to a lack of data on outcome measures. Other reasons that participants
          may be excluded include mistaken randomisation of participants who, on review, did not
          meet the study inclusion criteria, and participants receiving the wrong intervention due
          to protocol violation. The likely impact of such withdrawals and exclusions needs to be
          considered carefully; if the exclusion is related to the intervention and outcome then it
          can bias the results (for example, not accounting for high numbers of withdrawals due
          to adverse effects in one intervention arm will unduly favour that intervention). Serious
          bias can arise as a result of participants being withdrawn for apparently ad hoc reasons
          that are related to the success or failure of an intervention. There is evidence from the
          field of cancer research that exclusion of patients from the analysis may bias results,80
          though how this may apply to other fields is unclear. An intention to treat (ITT) analysis
          is generally recommended in order to reduce the risk of bias.
          An ITT analysis includes outcome data on all trial participants and analyses them
          according to the intervention to which they were randomised, regardless of the
          intervention(s) they actually received. Complete outcome data are often unavailable
          for participants who drop-out before the end of the trial, so in order to include all
          participants, assumptions need to be made about their missing outcome data (for
          example by imputation of missing values). ITT analysis generally provides a more
          conservative, and potentially less biased, estimate in trials of effectiveness (see Section
          1.3.5.2 Quantitative synthesis of comparative studies). However, ITT analyses are often
          poorly described and applied81 and if assessing methodological quality associated with
          statistical analysis, care needs to be taken in judging whether the use of ITT analysis
          has minimized the risk of attrition bias and whether it was appropriately applied. If
          an ITT analysis is not used, then the study should at least report the proportion of
          participants excluded from the analysis to allow a researcher to judge whether this is
          likely to have led to bias.




          36



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 36                                                                              8/1/09 09:28:50
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               The minimum criteria for assessment of risk of bias in RCTs are set out in Box 1.5. While
               all these criteria are relevant to assessing risk of bias, their relative importance can
               be context specific. For example, the importance of blinded outcome assessment will
               vary depending on whether the outcomes involve subjective judgement (this may vary
               between different outcomes measured within the same trial). Therefore, when planning
               which criteria to use it is important to think carefully about what characteristics would
               realistically be considered ideal. The Cochrane handbook provides a detailed assessment
               tool for use when assessing risk of bias in an RCT.82



                  Box 1.5: Criteria for assessment of risk of bias in RCTs

                  •     Was the method used to generate random allocations adequate?
                  •     Was the allocation adequately concealed?
                  •     Were the groups similar at the outset of the study in terms of prognostic
                        factors, e.g. severity of disease?
                  •     Were the care providers, participants and outcome assessors blind to
                        treatment allocation? If any of these people were not blinded, what might be
                        the likely impact on the risk of bias (for each outcome)?
                  •     Were there any unexpected imbalances in drop-outs between groups? If so,
                        were they explained or adjusted for?
                  •     Is there any evidence to suggest that the authors measured more outcomes
                        than they reported?
                  •     Did the analysis include an intention to treat analysis? If so, was this
                        appropriate and were appropriate methods used to account for missing data?



               Other randomised study designs
               In addition to parallel group RCTs, there are other randomised designs where further
               quality criteria may need to be considered. These are described below.


               Randomised cross-over trials
               In randomised cross-over trials all participants receive all the interventions. For example
               in a two arm cross-over trial, one group receives intervention A before intervention B,
               and the other group receives intervention B before intervention A. It is the sequence
               of interventions that is randomised. The advantage of cross-over trials is that they are
               potentially more efficient than parallel trials of a similar size, in which each participant
               receives only one of the interventions. The criteria for assessing risk of bias in RCTs also
               apply to cross-over trials, but there are some additional factors that need to be taken
               into consideration.
               The cross-over design is inappropriate for conditions where the intervention may
               provide a cure or remission, where there is a risk of spontaneous improvement or
               resolution of the condition, where there is a risk of deterioration over the period of the


                                                                                                        37



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 37                                                                              8/1/09 09:28:50
          Systematic Reviews


          trial (e.g. degenerative conditions) or where there is a risk that patients may die.83
          This is because these outcomes lead either to the participant being unable to enter
          the second period or, on entering the second period, their condition is systematically
          different from that in the first period.
          The possibility of a ‘carryover’ of the effect of the intervention provided in the first
          period into the second intervention period is an important concern in this study design.83
          This risk is dealt with by building in a treatment-free or placebo ‘washout period’
          between the intervention periods.83 The adequacy of the washout period length will need
          to be considered as part of the assessment of risk of bias.
          The statistical analysis appropriate to cross-over trials are discussed in the synthesis
          section and statistical advice is likely to be required (see Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis).


          Cluster randomised trials
          A cluster randomised trial is a trial where clusters of people rather than single
          individuals are randomised to different interventions.84 For example, whole clinics or
          geographical locations may be randomised to receive particular interventions, rather
          than individuals.
          The distinctive feature of cluster trials is that the outcome for each participant within a
          cluster may not be independent, since individuals within the cluster are likely to respond
          in a similar way to the intervention. Underlying reasons for this intra-cluster correlation
          include individuals in a cluster being affected in a similar manner due to shared
          exposure to a common environment such as specific hospital policies on discharge
          times; or personal interactions between cluster members and sharing of attitudes,
          behaviours and norms that may lead to similar responses.84 This has implications for
          estimating the sample size required (i.e. the sample needs to be larger than for an
          individually randomised trial) and the statistical analysis.
          When assessing the risk of selection bias in cluster randomised trials there are
          two factors that need to be considered: the randomisation of the clusters and how
          participants within clusters are selected into the study.85 The first can be dealt with
          by using an appropriate randomisation method with concealed allocation (clusters are
          often allocated at the outset). However, where the trial design then requires selection
          of participants from within a cluster, the risk of selection bias should also be assessed.
          There is a clear risk of selection bias when the person recruiting participants knows
          in advance the clinical characteristics of a participant and which intervention they will
          receive. Also, potential participants may know in advance which intervention their
          cluster will receive, leading to different participation rates in the comparison groups.85
          Two key methods for reducing bias in the selection of individuals within clusters have
          been identified: recruitment of individuals prior to the random allocation of clusters and,
          where this is not possible, use of an impartial individual to recruit participants following
          randomisation of the clusters.86
          The statistical analyses appropriate to cluster randomised trials are discussed in Section
          1.3.5 Data synthesis and statistical advice is likely to be required.
          Wider reading is recommended prior to conducting a quality assessment of cluster
          randomised trials. Several texts discuss the design, analysis and reporting of this trial
          design.75, 84, 87, 88

          38



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 38                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:50
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Quasi-experimental studies
               The main distinction between randomised and quasi-experimental studies is the way
               in which participants are allocated to the intervention and control groups; quasi-
               experimental studies do not use random assignment to create the comparison groups.
               In non-randomised controlled studies, individuals are allocated to concurrent
               comparison groups, using methods other than randomisation. The lack of concealed
               randomised allocation increases the risk of selection bias.
               Before-and-after studies evaluate participants before and after the introduction of an
               intervention. The comparison is usually made in the same group of participants, thus
               avoiding selection bias, although a different group can be used. In this type of design
               however, it can be difficult to account for confounding factors, secular trends, regression
               to the mean, and differences in the care of the participants apart from the intervention
               of interest.
               An alternative to this is a ‘time series’ design. Interrupted time series studies are
               multiple observations over time that are ‘interrupted’, usually by an intervention or
               treatment and thus permit separating real intervention effects from other long-term
               trends. It is a study design used where others, such as RCTs, are not feasible, for
               example in the evaluation of a screening service or a mass media campaign. It is also
               frequently used in policy evaluation, for example to measure the effect of a smoking
               ban.
               The circumstances in which, and extent to which, studies without randomisation are
               at risk of bias are not fully understood.89 A key influencing factor may be the extent to
               which prognosis influences selection for a particular intervention as well as eventual
               outcome.89 Because of the risk of bias, careful consideration should be given to the
               inclusion of quasi-experimental studies in a review to assess the effectiveness of an
               intervention. If included, researchers should think carefully about the strength of this
               evidence and how it should be interpreted.
               A review of quality assessment tools designed for or used to assess studies without
               randomisation identified key aspects of quality as being particularly pertinent:89

                  •     How the treatment groups were created (how allocation occurred; and whether
                        the study was designed to generate groups that are comparable on key
                        prognostic factors e.g. by ‘matching’ participants in each group).
                  •     The comparability of intervention and comparison groups at the analysis stage.
                        For example, whether prognostic factors were identified; and whether case-mix
                        adjustment was used to account for any between group differences.
               Other quality issues identified were similar to those for assessing performance,
               detection and attrition bias in RCTs: blinding of participants and investigators; the
               level of confidence that the participants received the intervention to which they were
               assigned and experienced the reported outcome as a result of that intervention; the
               adequacy of the follow-up; and appropriateness of the analysis.




                                                                                                        39



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 39                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:51
          Systematic Reviews


          Observational studies
          In observational studies the intervention(s) that individuals receive are determined by
          usual practice or ‘real-world’ choices, as opposed to being actively allocated as part of
          the study protocol.
          Observational studies are usually more susceptible to bias than experimental studies,
          and the conclusions that can be drawn from them are necessarily more tentative and
          are often hypothesis generating, highlighting areas for further research.
          Observational designs such as cohort studies, case-control studies and case series
          are often considered to form a hierarchy of increasing risk of bias. However, such a
          hierarchy is not always helpful because, as noted before, the same label can be used
          to describe studies with different design features and there is not always agreement on
          the definitions of such studies. Attention should focus on specific features of the studies
          (e.g. participant allocation, outcome assessment) and the extent to which they are
          susceptible to bias.
          In a cohort study design, a defined group of participants is followed over time and
          comparison is made between those who did and did not receive an intervention (e.g.
          a study may follow a cohort of women who choose to use oral contraceptives and
          compare them over time with women who choose other forms of contraception).
          Prospective cohort studies are planned in advance and define their participants before
          the intervention of interest and follow them into the future. These are less likely to be
          susceptible to bias than retrospective cohort studies, which identify participants from
          past records and follow them from the time of that record.
          Case-control studies compare groups from the same population with (cases) and
          without (controls) a specific outcome of interest, to evaluate the association between
          exposure to an intervention and the outcome. The risk of selection bias in such studies
          will be dependent on how the control group was selected. Groups may be matched
          to make them comparable for potential confounding factors. However, since analysis
          cannot be performed on matched variables, the matching criteria must be selected
          carefully, as this can give rise to ‘over-matching’ when the factors are related to
          allocation to the intervention.
          Case series are observations made on a number of individuals (with no control group)
          and are not comparative. They can, however, provide useful information, for example
          about the unintentional effects of an intervention (see Chapter 4) and in such situations
          it is important to assess their quality.


          Other issues related to study quality

          Choice of outcome measure
          As well as using blinding to minimize bias when assessing outcomes, it is usually
          necessary to consider the reliability or validity of the actual outcome measure being
          used (e.g. several different scales can be used to measure quality of life or psychological
          outcomes). It is important that the scales are fully understood to enable comparison,
          (e.g. a high score implies a favourable outcome in some scales and an unfavourable one
          in others).



          40



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 40                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:51
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               The outcome should also be relevant and meaningful to both the intervention and the
               evaluation (i.e. a treatment intended to reduce mortality should measure mortality, not
               merely a range of biochemical indicators).


               Statistical issues
               Although issues around statistical analysis are less important if the study data are
               to be combined in a meta-analysis, when studies are not being quantitatively pooled
               it is also important to assess statistical issues around design and analysis. For
               example, assessing whether a study is adequately powered to detect an effect of the
               intervention.90 The assessment of statistical power may involve relying on the sample
               size calculation in the primary study, where reported. However, defining population
               parameters for sample size calculations is a subjective judgement which may vary
               between investigators;91 for some review topics it may be appropriate to define a priori
               an adequate sample size for the purposes of the review.


               Quality of reporting
               Inadequate reporting of important aspects of methodological quality such as allocation
               concealment, blinding and statistical analysis is common,92 as is failure to report detail
               about the intervention and its implementation. Quality of reporting does not necessarily
               reflect the quality of the underlying methods or data, but when planning quality
               assessment it is important to decide how to deal with poor reporting. One approach is
               to assume that if an item is not reported then the criterion has not been met. While
               this may often be justifiable,93, 94 there is evidence to suggest that failure to report a
               method does not necessarily mean it has not been used.95-97 Therefore it is important
               to be accurate and distinguish between failure to report a criterion and failure to meet
               a criterion. For example, a criterion can be described as being met, not met, or unclear
               due to inadequate reporting.
               There have been a number of initiatives aimed at improving the quality of reporting
               of primary research. The CONSORT statement contains a set of recommendations for
               the reporting of RCTs,98 the TREND statement provides guidelines for the reporting of
               non-randomised evaluations of behavioural and public health interventions,99 and the
               STROBE statement is an initiative to improve reporting of observational studies.100 The
               EQUATOR network promotes the transparent and accurate reporting of health research
               in a number of ways, including the use of these consensus reporting guidelines.101 It is
               anticipated that implementation of these guidelines will help improve the standard of
               reporting, which should make quality assessment more straightforward.


               Quality of the intervention
               In addition to study design, it is often helpful to assess the quality of the intervention and
               its implementation. At its most simplistic, the quality of an intervention refers to whether
               it has been used appropriately. This is a fairly straightforward assessment where, for
               example drug titration studies have been conducted. It is more problematic where there
               is no preliminary research suggesting that an intervention should be administered in a
               particular way,102 or where the intervention requires a technical skill such as surgery or
               physiotherapy.103 It is important to establish to what extent these are standardised, as this
               will affect how the results should be interpreted.


                                                                                                          41



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 41                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:51
          Systematic Reviews


          The quality of the intervention is particularly relevant to complex interventions made up
          from a number of components, which act independently and inter-dependently.104, 203, 204
          These include clinical interventions such as physiotherapy as well as public health
          interventions such as community-based programmes. The quality of an intervention can
          be conceptualised as having two main aspects: (i) whether the intervention has been
          appropriately defined and (ii) whether it has been delivered as planned (the integrity or
          fidelity of the intervention).
          If the quality of the intervention is relevant, the review should assess whether the
          intervention was implemented as planned in the individual studies (i.e. how many
          participants received the intervention as planned, whether consistency of implementation
          was measured, and whether it is likely that participants received an unintended
          intervention/contamination of the intervention that may influence the results). In some
          topic areas, for example when a sham device or procedure is being used, it may also be
          relevant to assess the quality of the comparator. When an intervention relies on the skill of
          the care provider it may be useful to assess whether the performance of those providing
          the intervention was measured. For more detailed information on complex interventions
          see Chapter 3.


          Generalisability
          Generalisability, also known as applicability or external validity, is not considered
          in detail in this section. In addition to assessing the risk of bias (internal validity),
          researchers may also consider how closely a study reflects routine practice or the usual
          setting where the intervention would be implemented. However, this is not an inherent
          characteristic of a study as the extent to which a study is ‘generalisable’ depends
          also on the situation to which the findings are being applied.105 Therefore the issue
          of generalisability is also raised in Section 1.2 The review protocol in the context of
          defining inclusion criteria for the review, Section 1.3.3 Data extraction and in Section
          1.3.6 Report writing.


          1.3.4.3 The impact of study quality on the estimate of effect

          Several empirical studies have explored how quality can influence the results of
          clinical trials (and therefore the results of reviews of trials). Trials with double-blinding
          and adequate concealment of allocation have been found to indicate less beneficial
          treatment effects than trials without these features.106 Similarly, exclusion of lower
          quality studies has led to less beneficial effects in meta-analyses.106 In meta-analyses of
          subjectively assessed outcomes (e.g. patient reported outcomes), inadequate allocation
          concealment and lack of blinding have been associated with substantially more
          beneficial treatment effects, whereas for objective outcomes (e.g. mortality) there was
          a modest effect of inadequate allocation concealment and no effect of lack of blinding.107
          There is some evidence about the relationship between study quality and the estimate
          of effect that is contradictory to the above,108, 109 though this may be due to the data
          sets used and how specific quality criteria were defined.




          42



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 42                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:52
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.4.4 The process of quality assessment in systematic reviews

               There are two main approaches towards assessing quality. One involves the use of
               checklists of quality items and the other of scales which provide an overall numerical
               quality score for each study.110


               Tools for assessing quality
               Checklists can be a reliable means of ensuring that all the studies assessed are critically
               appraised in a standardised way. There are many different checklists and scales readily
               available, 75, 111-116 which can be modified to meet the requirements of the review, or a
               new detailed checklist, specific to the review, may be developed.
               Because some items included may require a degree of subjective judgement, it is
               important to pilot the use of the checklist and to ensure that the quality assessment is
               undertaken independently by two researchers.
               The use of scales with summary scores to distinguish high and low quality studies is
               questionable and not recommended.117, 118 Very few scales have been developed using
               standard techniques to establish their validity and reliability.113 The weighting assigned
               to methodological items varies considerably between scales,117 and does not usually take
               into account the direction of bias.119 An investigation comparing low-molecular-weight
               heparin (LMWH) with standard heparin for thromboprophylaxis in general surgery found
               that trials identified as ‘high quality’ by some of the 25 scales investigated indicated that
               LMWH was not superior to standard heparin, whereas trials identified as ‘high quality’ by
               other scales led to the opposite conclusion, that LMWH was beneficial.117 It is therefore
               preferable that aspects of quality such as blinding and treatment allocation (and their
               potential impact on study results) should be considered individually.117


               Checklists by type of study design
               In general checklists tend to be specific to particular study designs, and where reviews
               include more than one type of study design, separate lists can be used or a combined
               list selected or developed. Checklists have also been developed for use with both
               randomised and non-randomised studies such as that by Downs and Black.111
               There are multiple systems available for the evaluation of RCTs,112, 113 in addition to the
               Cochrane handbook assessment tool for assessing risk of bias.82 In a review of checklists
               for the assessment of non-randomised studies, nearly 200 tools were identified. From
               these, six were recommended as being suitable for use in systematic reviews including
               non-randomised studies.89 The Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care
               Group (EPOC) have developed guidelines to assist researchers in making decisions
               about when to include studies that use interrupted time series designs and how to
               assess their methodological quality.115, 116 A useful checklist for observational studies
               was published as part of the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality’s (AHRQ)
               ‘Systems to Rate the Strength of Scientific Evidence’.112 The most recent version of the
               Cochrane Handbook also contains guidance on dealing with non-randomised studies in
               systematic reviews of interventions, from the protocol to synthesis stages.75




                                                                                                         43



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 43                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:52
          Systematic Reviews


          How will the quality assessment information be used?
          Simply reporting which quality criteria were met by studies included in a systematic
          review is not sufficient. The implications of the quality assessment for interpreting
          results need to be explicitly considered.
          Study quality can be incorporated into the synthesis either quantitatively through
          subgroup or sensitivity analyses (see Section 1.3.5.2: Quantitative synthesis), or in a
          narrative synthesis. In the latter, the quality assessment can be used to help interpret
          and explain differences in results across studies (e.g. unblinded studies with subjective
          outcomes may have consistently larger effects than blinded studies) and inform a
          qualitative interpretation of the risk of bias (see Section 1.3.5.1 Narrative synthesis).



               Summary: Quality assessment

               •    An important part of the systematic review process is to assess the risk of
                    bias in included studies caused by inadequacies in study design, conduct
                    or analysis that may have led to the treatment effect being over or
                    underestimated.
               •    Various tools are available but there is no single tool that is suitable for use in
                    all reviews. Choice should be guided by:
                    • Study design
                    • The level of detail required in the assessment
                    • The ability to distinguish between internal validity (risk of bias) and external
                         validity (generalisability)
               •    Using quality scores is problematic; it is preferable to consider individual
                    aspects of methodological quality in the quality assessment and synthesis.
               •    Where appropriate, the potential impact that methodological quality had on
                    the findings of the included studies should be considered.
               •    Detailed quality assessment can be time consuming if a review includes a
                    large number of studies and may require considerable expertise in critical
                    appraisal. If resources are limited, priority should be given to assessment of
                    the key sources of bias.




          44



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 44                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:52
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.5        Data synthesis

               Synthesis involves the collation, combination and summary of the findings of individual
               studies included in the systematic review. Synthesis can be done quantitatively using
               formal statistical techniques such as meta-analysis, or if formal pooling of results
               is inappropriate, through a narrative approach. As well as drawing results together,
               synthesis should consider the strength of evidence, explore whether any observed effects
               are consistent across studies, and investigate possible reasons for any inconsistencies.
               This enables reliable conclusions to be drawn from the assembled body of evidence.

               Deciding what type of synthesis is appropriate
               Many systematic reviews evaluating the effects of health interventions focus on
               evidence from RCTs, the results of which, generally, can be combined quantitatively.
               However, not all health care questions can be addressed by RCTs, and systematic
               reviews do not automatically involve statistical pooling. Meta-analysis is not always
               possible or sensible. For example, pooling results obtained from diverse non-randomised
               study types is not recommended.120 Similarly, meta-analysis of poor quality studies
               could be seriously misleading as errors or biases in individual studies would be
               compounded and the very act of synthesis may give credence to poor quality studies.
               However, when used appropriately, meta-analysis has the advantage of being explicit
               in the way that data from individual studies are combined, and is a powerful tool for
               combining study findings, helping avoid misinterpretation and allowing meaningful
               conclusions to be drawn across studies.
               The planned approach should be decided at the outset of the review, depending on the
               type of question posed and the type of studies that are likely to be available. There may
               be topics where it can be decided a priori that a narrative approach is appropriate. For
               example, in a systematic review of interventions for people bereaved by suicide, it was
               anticipated there would be such diversity in the included studies, in terms of settings,
               interventions and outcome measures, that a narrative synthesis alone was proposed in
               the protocol.121
               Narrative and quantitative approaches are not mutually exclusive. Components
               of narrative synthesis can be usefully incorporated into a review that is primarily
               quantitative in focus and those that take a primarily narrative approach can incorporate
               some statistical analyses such as calculating a common outcome statistic for each study.

               Initial descriptive synthesis
               Both quantitative and narrative synthesis should begin by constructing a clear
               descriptive summary of the included studies. This is usually done by tabulating details
               about study type, interventions, numbers of participants, a summary of participant
               characteristics, outcomes and outcome measures. An indication of study quality or risk
               of bias may also be given in this or a separate table (see Section 1.3.2 Study selection
               and Section 1.3.4 Quality assessment). An example is given in Table 1.1. If the review
               will not involve re-calculating summary statistics, but will rather rely on the reported
               results of the author’s analyses, these may also be included in the table. The descriptive
               process should be both explicit and rigorous and decisions about how to group and
               tabulate data should be based on the review question and what has been planned in the
               protocol. This initial phase will also be helpful in confirming that studies are similar and
               reliable enough to synthesise, and that it is appropriate to pool results.
                                                                                                        45



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 45                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:52
          Systematic Reviews


          Table 1.1: Example table describing studies included in a systematic review of
          the effectiveness of drug treatments for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in
          children and adolescents. 122

          Study                  Design Intervention – N       Age   Duration Core outcomes
                                                             (years) (weeks)

          Administered once      C (5x)   MPH (5 mg/day,       5–12      5   Core: no hyp; Abbreviated
          daily                           o.d.) – 45                         CTRS: total score
          Rapport, 1989                   MPH (10 mg/day,                    QoL: not reported
                                          o.d.) – 45                         AE: not reported
                                          MPH (15 mg/day,
                                          o.d.) – 45
          DuPaul, 1993           C (5x)   MPH (5 mg/day,       6–11      6   Core: No hyp; Abbreviated
                                          o.d.) – 31                         CTRS: total score
                                          MPH (10 mg/day,                    QoL: not reported
                                          o.d.) – 31                         AE: not reported
                                          MPH (15 mg/day,
                                          o.d.) – 31
          Werry, 1980            C (3x)   MPH (0.40 mg/kg, 5.5–12.5      4   Core: Conners’ Teacher
                                          o.d.) – 30                         Questionnaire: hyperactivity;
                                                                             Conners’ Parent
                                                                             Questionnaire: hyperactivity
                                                                             QoL: CGI (physician)
                                                                             AE: weight
          Administered two    C (4x)      MPH (8.76 mg/       13–15      8   Core: CPRS: Hyperactivity
          or more times daily             day, b.d.) – 11                    Index; Conners’ Teacher
          Brown, 1988                                                        Hyperactivity Index;
                                                                             ACTeRS: hyperactivity
                                                                             QoL: not reported
                                                                             AE: SERS (parents); weight
          Fischer, 1991          C (3x)   MPH (0.40 mg/       2.4–17.2   3   Core: CPRS-R: Hyperactivity
                                          kg/day, b.d.) – 161                Index; CTRS-R:
                                                                             hyperactivity index;
                                                                             CTRS-R: hyperactivity
                                                                             QoL: not reported
                                                                             AE: CPRS-R: psychosomatic;
                                                                             SERS (parents, teachers):
                                                                             number of side-effects,
                                                                             mean severity rating
          Fitzpatrick, 1992      C (4x)   MPH (10–15 mg/     6.9–11.5    8   Core: Conners’ Hyperactivity
                                          day, b.d.) – 19                    Index (parents and teacher);
                                                                             TOTS: hyperactivity (parents
                                                                             and teachers)
                                                                             QoL: no CGI; comments
                                                                             ratings (parent/teacher)
                                                                             AE: STESS (parents); weight




          46



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 46                                                                               8/1/09 09:28:53
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions



               Study                 Design Intervention – N           Age   Duration Core outcomes
                                                                     (years) (weeks)

               Fine, 1993            C (3x)    MPH [0.30 mg/           6–10         3      Core: not reported
                                               kg/day (unclear),                           QoL: not reported
                                               b.d.] – 12                                  AE: side-effects
                                                                                           questionnaire
               Hoeppner, 1997        C (3x)    MPH (0.30 mg/         6.1–18.2       4      Core: CPRS: Hyperactivity
                                               kg/day, b.d.) – 50                          Index; CTRS: Hyperactivity
                                                                                           Index
                                                                                           QoL: not reported
                                                                                           AE: not reported
               Handen, 1999          C (3x)    MPH (12–15 mg/          4–5.1        3      Core: CTRS: Hyperactivity
                                               day, max. 3x) – 11                          Index; CTRS: hyperactivity
                                                                                           QoL: not reported
                                                                                           AE: Side Effects Checklist
                                                                                           (teachers, parents); mean
                                                                                           severity rating 0–6
               Manos, 1999           C (4x)    MPH (10 mg/             5–17         4      Core: no hyp; ASQ (parents
                                               day, b.d.) – 42                             and teachers); ARS (parent)
                                                                                           QoL: no CGI; composite
                                                                                           ratings (clinician)
                                                                                           AE: Side Effects Behaviour
                                                                                           Monitoring Scale (parents)
               Barkley, 2000         C (5x)    MPH (10 mg/day,        12–17         5      Core: no hyp; ADHD Total
                                               b.d.) – 38                                  Parent/Teacher rating
                                                                                           QoL: not reported
                                                                                           AE: number and severity of
                                                                                           side-effects (teachers,
                                                                                           parents, self)
               Tervo, 2002           C (3x)    MPH (0.10 mg/          M=9.9         3      Core: no hyp; CBCL (parent)
                                               kg/day, b.d.) – 41     (2.9)                QoL: not reported
                                                                                           AE: not reported

               ACTeRS, ADD-H Comprehensive Teachers’ Rating Scale; AE, adverse effects; ARS, ADHD Rating Scale;
               ASQ, Abbreviated Symptoms Questionnaire; b.d., twice daily; C, cross-over trial (number of cross-
               overs); CBCL, Child Behaviour Checklist; CGI, Clinical Global Impression; CPRS, Conners’ Parent Rating
               Scale; CTRS, Conners’ Teacher Rating Scale; MPH, methylphenidate hydrochloride; N, number of
               participants; o.d., once daily; P, parallel trial; hyp, hyperactivity; PACS, Parental Account of Childhood
               Symptoms; SERS, Side Effects Rating Scale.




                                                                                                                       47



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 47                                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:53
          Systematic Reviews


          1.3.5.1 Narrative synthesis

          All systematic reviews should contain text and tables to provide an initial descriptive
          summary and explanation of the characteristics and findings of the included studies.
          However simply describing the studies is not sufficient for a synthesis. The defining
          characteristic of narrative synthesis is the adoption of a textual approach that provides
          an analysis of the relationships within and between studies and an overall assessment of
          the robustness of the evidence.
          A narrative synthesis of studies may be undertaken where studies are too diverse
          (either clinically or methodologically) to combine in a meta-analysis, but even where a
          meta-analysis is possible, aspects of narrative synthesis will usually be required in order
          to fully interpret the collected evidence.
          Narrative synthesis is inherently a more subjective process than meta-analysis;
          therefore, the approach used should be rigorous and transparent to reduce the potential
          for bias. The idea of narrative synthesis within a systematic review should not be
          confused with broader terms like ‘narrative review’, which are sometimes used to
          describe reviews that are not systematic.


          A general framework for narrative synthesis
          How narrative syntheses are carried out varies widely, and historically there has been a
          lack of consensus as to the constituent elements of the approach or the conditions for
          establishing credibility. A project for the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)
          Methods Programme has developed guidance on the conduct of narrative synthesis in
          systematic reviews.123-126 The guidance offers both a general framework and specific
          tools and techniques that help to increase the transparency and trustworthiness of
          narrative synthesis.
          The general framework consists of four elements:

               •    Developing a theory of how the intervention works, why and for whom
               •    Developing a preliminary synthesis of findings of included studies
               •    Exploring relationships within and between studies
               •    Assessing the robustness of the synthesis
          Though the framework is divided into these four elements, the elements themselves
          do not have to be undertaken in a strictly sequential manner, nor are they totally
          independent of one another. A researcher is likely to move iteratively among the
          activities that make up these four elements.
          For each element of the framework, this guidance presents a range of practical tools and
          techniques. It is not mandatory (or indeed appropriate) to employ each one of these
          for every narrative synthesis, but the appropriate tools/techniques should be selected
          depending upon the nature of the evidence being synthesised. The reason for the choice
          of tool or technique should be specified in the methods section of the review.
          A fuller description of these tools and techniques and narrative synthesis in general can
          be found in the ESRC guidance report.125, 126 It should be noted that the list given here
          is not comprehensive and other tools and techniques may be appropriate in certain
          circumstances.

          48



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 48                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:53
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               The four elements of the narrative synthesis framework (and some of their related tools
               and techniques) are described below (Figure 1.2).126



                                                                                BEGINNING OF
                                                                                SYNTHESIS
                                         Developing a theory



                                 Developing a preliminary synthesis


                                                      Tools and techniques

                                 • Tabulation
                                 • Groupings and clusters
                                 • Transforming data: constructing a
                                   common measure
                                 • Vote-counting as a descriptive tool




                                                                             Movement between stages
                                  Exploring relationships within and
                                           between studies


                                                      Tools and techniques

                                 • Moderator variables and subgroup
                                   analyses
                                 • Idea webbing/conceptual mapping
                                 • Qualitative case descriptions
                                 • Visual representation of relationship
                                   between study characteristics and
                                   results



                                   Assessing the robustness of the
                                              synthesis


                                                      Tools and techniques

                                 • Reflecting critically on the synthesis
                                   process

                                                                                END OF
                                                                                SYNTHESIS
                                 Conclusions and recommendations
                                          (Final synthesis)


               Figure 1.2: Example of applying the narrative synthesis framework




                                                                                                       49



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 49                                                                         8/1/09 09:28:53
          Systematic Reviews


          Developing a theory of how the intervention works, why and for whom
          The extent to which theory will play a role will partly depend upon the type of
          intervention(s) being evaluated. For example, theory may only play a minor role in
          a systematic review looking at the effects of a single therapeutic drug on patient
          outcomes because many aspects of the ‘mechanism of action’ will have been established
          in early studies investigating pharmacodynamics, dose-finding etc. Alternatively, in a
          systematic review evaluating the effects of a psychosocial or educational programme,
          theories about the causal chain linking the intervention to the outcomes of interest will
          be of crucial importance and might be presented descriptively or in diagrammatic form,
          as displayed in Figure 1.3.


                         Safety education                                        Discounted/free alarms
                                                                                  and safety equipment



                             Increases                   Removes cost
                             knowledge                      barrier
                                                                                         Removes
                                                                                      ‘effort’ barrier

                       Changes perception
                            of risks
                                                       Alarm acquisition




                                                    Alarm use and function



                                         Reduction in smoke/fire related deaths/injuries


          Figure 1.3: Interventions to increase use and function of smoke alarms: implicit
          theory of change model



          Developing a preliminary synthesis of findings of included studies
          Once the relevant studies have been data extracted, the first step is to bring together,
          organise and describe their findings. The direction and size of the reported effects may
          be the starting point. Or, for example, a collection of studies evaluating one kind of
          intervention might be divided into subgroups of studies with distinct populations, such
          as children and adults. It is important to remember that this is only the first step of
          the synthesis. The remaining elements of the framework need to be taken into account
          before it can be considered adequate as a narrative synthesis.
          Table 1.2 describes a range of tools and techniques that might be employed at this
          stage of the synthesis.




          50



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 50                                                                            8/1/09 09:28:54
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Table 1.2: Developing a preliminary synthesis of findings of included studies


               Textual descriptions of studies   A descriptive paragraph on each included study. These
                                                 descriptions should be produced in a systematic way, including
                                                 the same type of information for all studies if possible and in the
                                                 same order. It may be useful for recording purposes to do this
                                                 for all excluded studies as well.
               Groupings and clusters            The included studies might be grouped at an early stage of the
                                                 review, though it may be necessary to refine these initial groups
                                                 as the synthesis develops. This can also be a useful way of
                                                 aiding the process of description and analysis and looking
                                                 for patterns within and across groups. It is important to use the
                                                 review question(s) to inform decisions about how to group the
                                                 included studies.
               Tabulation                        A common approach, used to represent data visually. The way
                                                 in which data are tabulated may affect readers’ impressions of
                                                 the relationships between studies, emphasising the importance
                                                 of a narrative interpretation to supplement the tabulated data.
               Transforming data into a          In both narrative and quantitative synthesis it is important to
               common measure                    ensure that data are presented in a common measure to allow
                                                 an accurate description of the range of effects.
               Vote-counting as a descriptive    Simple vote-counting might involve the tabulation of findings
               tool                              according to direction of effect. More complex approaches
                                                 can be developed both in terms of the categories used and by
                                                 assigning different weights or scores to different categories.
                                                 However, vote-counting can disregard sample size and be
                                                 misleading. So, the interpretation of the results must be
                                                 approached with caution and subjected to further scrutiny.
               Translating data: thematic        A technique used in the analysis of qualitative data in primary
               analysis                          research can be used to systematically identify the main,
                                                 recurrent and/or most important (based on the review question)
                                                 themes and/or concepts across multiple studies.127
               Translating data: content         A technique for compressing many words of text into fewer
               analysis                          content categories based on explicit rules of coding.128 Unlike
                                                 thematic analysis, it is essentially a quantitative method, since
                                                 all the data are eventually converted into frequencies.



               Exploring relationships within and between studies
               Patterns emerging from the data during the preliminary synthesis need to be rigorously
               scrutinised in order to identify factors that might explain variations in the size/direction
               of effects. At this stage there is a clear attempt to explore relationships between: (a)
               characteristics of individual studies and their reported findings; and (b) the findings of
               different studies.
               However, when exploring heterogeneity in this way, it is necessary to be wary of
               uncovering associations between characteristics and results that are based on
               comparisons of many subgroups – some of these may simply have occurred by chance.


                                                                                                                  51



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 51                                                                                       8/1/09 09:28:54
          Systematic Reviews


          Subgroup comparisons which are specified in advance (i.e. as part of the review
          protocol) are more likely to be plausible than those which are not.129, 130
          The extent to which these factors can be explored in the review depends on how clearly
          they are reported in the primary research studies. The amount of detail may depend on
          the type of publication and the nature of the intervention being reviewed (e.g. highly
          standardised interventions may not be described as fully as more unusual ones).
          Tools and techniques that might be employed at this stage of the synthesis are
          described in Table 1.3.


          Table 1.3: Exploring relationships within and between studies


          Graphs, frequency               There are several visual or graphical tools that can help
          distributions, funnel plots,    reviewers explore relationships within and between studies.
          forest plots and L’Abbe plots   These include: presenting results in graphical form; plotting
                                          findings (e.g. effect size) against study quality; plotting
                                          confidence intervals; and/or plotting outcome measures.
          Moderator variables and         This refers to the analysis of variables which can be expected to
          subgroup analyses               moderate the main effects being examined in the review. This
                                          can be done at the study level, by examining characteristics
                                          that vary between studies (such as study quality, study design
                                          or study setting) or by analysing characteristics of the sample
                                          (such as subgroups of participants).
          Idea webbing and conceptual     Involves using visual methods to help to construct groupings
          mapping                         and relationships. The basic idea underpinning these approaches
                                          is (i) to group findings that are empirically and/or conceptually
                                          similar and (ii) to identify (again on the basis of empirical
                                          evidence and/or conceptual/theoretical arguments) relationships
                                          between these groupings.
          Qualitative case descriptions   Any process in which descriptive data from studies included in
                                          the systematic review are used to try to explain differences
                                          in statistical findings. For example why one intervention
                                          outperforms another apparently similar intervention or why
                                          some studies are statistical outliers.
          Investigator/methodological/    Triangulation makes use of a combination of different
          conceptual triangulation        perspectives and/or assessment methods to study a particular
                                          phenomenon. This could apply to the methodological and
                                          theoretical approaches adopted by the researchers undertaking
                                          primary studies included in a systematic review, e.g.
                                          investigator triangulation explores the extent to which
                                          heterogeneity in study results may be attributable to the diverse
                                          approaches taken by different researchers. Triangulation
                                          involves analysing the data in relation to the context in which
                                          they were produced, notably the disciplinary perspectives and
                                          expertise of the researchers producing the data.




          52



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 52                                                                                8/1/09 09:28:54
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Assessing the robustness of the synthesis
               Towards the end of the synthesis process, the analysis of relationships as described
               above should lead into an overall assessment of the strength of the evidence. This is
               essential when drawing conclusions based on the narrative synthesis.
               Robustness can relate to the methodological quality of the included studies (such as
               risk of bias), and/or the credibility of the product of the synthesis process. Obviously,
               these are related. The credibility of a synthesis will depend on both the quality and
               the quantity of the evidence base it is built on, and the method of synthesis and the
               clarity/transparency of its description. If primary studies of poor methodological quality
               are included in the review in an uncritical manner then this will affect the integrity of
               the synthesis. Attempts to minimize the introduction of bias might include ‘weighting’
               the findings of studies according to technical quality (i.e. giving greater credence to the
               findings of more methodologically sound studies) and providing a clear justification for
               this. Similarly, a clear description of the potential sources of bias within the synthesis
               process itself helps establish credibility with the reader.
               Table 1.4 describes the tools and techniques that might be employed at this stage of the
               synthesis.


               Table 1.4: Assessing the robustness of the synthesis


               Use of validity assessment     Use of specific rules to define weak, moderate or good evidence.
                                              An example is the approach used by the US Centers for Disease
                                              Control and Prevention131 although there are many other
                                              evidence grading systems available. Decisions about the
                                              strength of evidence are explicit although the criteria used are
                                              often debated.
               Reflecting critically on the   Use of a critical discussion to address methodology of the
               synthesis process              synthesis used132 (especially focusing on its limitations and
                                              their potential influence on the results); evidence used (quality,
                                              validity, generalisability) – with emphasis on the possible
                                              sources of bias and their potential influence on results of the
                                              synthesis; assumptions made; discrepancies and uncertainties
                                              identified; expected changes in technology or evidence
                                              (e.g. identified ongoing studies); aspects that may have an
                                              influence on implementation and effectiveness in real settings.
                                              Such a discussion would provide information on both the
                                              robustness and generalisability of the synthesis.
               Checking the synthesis with    It is possible to consult with the authors of included primary
               authors of primary studies     studies in order to test the validity of the interpretations
                                              developed during the synthesis and the extent to which they are
                                              supported by the primary data.133 The authors of the primary
                                              studies may have useful insights into the possible accuracy
                                              and generalisability of the synthesis; this is most likely to be
                                              useful when the number of primary studies is small. This is a
                                              technique that has been used with qualitative evidence.




                                                                                                              53



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 53                                                                                 8/1/09 09:28:55
          Systematic Reviews


          1.3.5.2 Quantitative synthesis of comparative studies

          As with narrative synthesis, quantitative synthesis should be embedded in a review
          framework that is based on a clear hypothesis, should consider the direction and size
          of any observed intervention effects in relation to the strength of evidence, and should
          explore relationships within and between studies. The requirements for a careful and
          thoughtful approach, the need to assess the robustness of syntheses, and to reflect
          critically on the synthesis process, apply equally but are not repeated here.
          This section aims to outline the rationale for quantitative synthesis of comparative
          studies and to focus on describing commonly used methods of combining study results
          and exploring heterogeneity. A more detailed overview of quantitative synthesis for
          systematic review is given in the Cochrane Handbook.75 Comprehensive accounts
          are also given by Whitehead134 and Cooper and Hedges,135 and a discussion of recent
          developments and more experimental approaches is given in a paper by Sutton and
          Higgins.136
          Decisions about which comparisons to make, and which outcomes and summary effect
          measures to use, should have been addressed as part of the protocol development.
          However, as synthesis depends partly on what results are actually reported, some
          planned analyses may not be possible, and others may have to be adapted or
          developed. Any departures from the analyses planned in the protocol should be clearly
          justified and reported.
          Decisions about what studies should and should not be combined are inevitably
          subjective and require careful discussion and judgement. As far as possible a priori
          consideration at the time of writing the protocol is desirable. There will always be
          differences between studies that address a common question. Reserving meta-
          analyses for only those studies that evaluate exactly the same interventions in near
          identical participant populations would be severely limiting and seldom achievable in
          practice. For example, whilst it may not be sensible to average the results of studies
          using different classes of experimental drugs or comparators, it may be reasonable
          to combine results of studies that use analogues or drugs with similar mechanisms of
          action. Likewise, it will often be reasonable to combine results of studies that have used
          similar but not identical comparators (e.g. placebo and no treatment). Where there are
          substantial differences between studies addressing a broadly similar question, although
          combining their results to give an estimate of an average effect may be meaningless,
          a test of whether an overall effect is present might be informative. It can be useful to
          calculate summary statistics for each individual study to show the variability in results
          across studies. It may also be helpful to use meta-analysis methods to quantify this
          heterogeneity, even when combined estimates of effect are not produced.


          Reasons for meta-analysis
          Combining the results of individual studies in a meta-analysis increases power and
          precision in estimating intervention effects. In most areas of health care, ‘breakthroughs’
          are rare and we may reasonably expect that new interventions will lead to only modest
          improvements in outcome; such improvements can of course be extremely important
          to individuals and of significant benefit in terms of population health. Large numbers
          of events are required to detect modest effects, which are easily obscured by the play


          54



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 54                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:55
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               of chance, and studies are often too small to do so reliably. Thus, in any group of small
               trials addressing similar questions, although a few may have demonstrated statistically
               significant results by chance alone, most are likely to be inconclusive. However,
               combining the results of studies in a meta-analysis provides increased numbers of
               participants, reduces random error, narrows confidence intervals, and provides a greater
               chance of detecting a real effect as statistically significant (i.e. increases statistical
               power). Meta-analysis also allows observation and statistical exploration of the pattern
               of results across studies and quantification and exploration of any differences.


               Combining comparative study results in a meta-analysis
               Most meta-analyses take a two-step approach in that they first analyse the outcome of
               interest and calculate summary statistics for each individual study. In the second stage,
               these individual study statistics are combined to give an overall summary estimate.
               This is usually calculated as a weighted average of the individual study estimates. The
               greater the weight awarded to a study, the more it influences the overall estimate.
               Studies are usually, at least in part, weighted in inverse proportion to their variance (or
               standard error squared), a method which essentially gives more weight to larger studies
               and less weight to smaller studies. It is also possible to weight studies according to
               other factors such as trial quality, but such methods are very seldom implemented and
               not recommended.
               Two main statistical models are used. Fixed-effect models weight the contribution
               of each study proportional to the amount of information observed in the study. This
               considers only variability in results within studies and no allowance is made for variation
               between studies. Random-effects models allow for between-study variability in results
               by weighting studies using a combination of their own variance and the between-study
               variance. Where there is little between-study variability, the within-study variance will
               dominate and the random-effects weighting will tend towards that of the fixed-effect
               weighting. If there is substantial between-study variability, this dominates the weighting
               factor and within-study variability contributes little to the analysis. In this way, all trials
               will tend towards contributing equally towards the overall estimate and it can be argued
               that small studies will unduly influence the estimate. Those in favour of random-effects
               argue that it formally allows for between-study variability and that the fixed-effect
               approach unrealistically assumes a single effect across trials and gives over-precise
               estimates. In practice, with well-defined questions, the results of both approaches
               are often very similar and it is common to run both to test robustness of the choice of
               statistical model.


               Generic inverse variance method of combining study results
               The generic inverse variance method is a widely used and easy to implement method
               of combining study results that underlies many of the approaches that are described
               later. It is very flexible and can be used to combine any type of effect measure provided
               that an effect estimate and its standard error is available from each study. Effect
               estimates may include adjusted estimates, estimates corrected for clustering and repeat
               measurements, or other summaries derived from more complex statistical methods.
               A fixed-effect meta-analysis using the generic inverse variance method calculates
               a weighted average of study effect estimates (EEIV) by summing individual effect


                                                                                                           55



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 55                                                                              8/1/09 09:28:55
          Systematic Reviews


          estimates (EEi), for example, the log odds ratio or the mean difference, and weighting
          these by the reciprocal of their squared standard errors (SEi) as follows:137
                                                                                     1
                                                                 ∑ EE ⋅ SE
                                                                         i                   2
                                                                                         i
                                                       EE IV =
                                                                             1
                                                                      ∑ SE           2
                                                                                 i


          A random-effects approach involves adjusting the study specific standard errors to
          incorporate between-study variation, which can be estimated from the effects and
          standard errors associated with the included studies.138


          Types of data
          Other ways to combine studies of effectiveness are available, some of which are specific
          to the nature of the data that have been collected, analysed and presented in the
          included studies.


               Box 1.6: Illustration of how to calculate risk ratio, relative and
               absolute risk reduction, and odds ratios and their standard errors

                                            Individuals with           Individuals without
                                                 event                        event

                                           Notation     Example       Notation                   Example         Total

               Experimental group              a             2               b                     18       ne           20
               Control group                   c             4               d                     16       nc           20
               Total                                         6                                     34       N            40

               Risk ratio

                                                             ⎛ a ⎞            ⎛ 2 ⎞
                                                             ⎜ ⎟              ⎜    ⎟
                                                                                20 ⎠
                       risk of event in experimental group ⎜⎝ ne ⎟⎠      RR = ⎝      = 0.5
               RR =                                       =                   ⎛ 4 ⎞
                          risk of event in control group    ⎛ c ⎞             ⎜    ⎟
                                                            ⎜⎜ ⎟⎟             ⎝ 20 ⎠
                                                             ⎝ nc ⎠
                              ⎡⎛ a ⎞ ⎤
                              ⎢ ⎜⎜ ⎟⎟ ⎥                                  ln(0.5) = −0.69
                                 ⎝ ne ⎠ ⎥
               ln ( RR ) = ln ⎢
                              ⎢⎛ c ⎞ ⎥
                              ⎢ ⎜⎜ ⎟⎟ ⎥
                              ⎢⎣ ⎝ nc ⎠ ⎥⎦


                                 1 1 1   1                                                          1 1  1   1
               SE ln(RR) =        + −  −                                 SEln(0.5) =                 + −   −   = 0.81
                                                                                                    2 4 20 20
                                 a c ne nc
                                                                                                                   (Continued)



          56



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 56                                                                                                   8/1/09 09:28:55
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions




                  Relative risk reduction

                   RRR = (1 − RR) × 100%                                          RRR = (1 − 0.5) × 100% = 50%


                  Odds ratio

                                                              ⎛a⎞                       ⎛ 2 ⎞
                                                              ⎜ ⎟                       ⎜⎜     ⎟
                         odds of event in experimental group ⎝ b ⎠ a × d                   18 ⎟⎠ 2 × 16
                   OR =                                     =      =              OR = ⎝          =     = 0.44
                             odds of event in control group   ⎛ c ⎞ b×c                ⎛ 4 ⎞ 18 × 4
                                                              ⎜ ⎟                      ⎜⎜      ⎟⎟
                                                              ⎝d⎠                       ⎝ 16 ⎠

                                ⎡a × d ⎤
                   ln(OR ) = ln ⎢      ⎥                                         ln(0.44) = −0.82
                                ⎣ b× c ⎦



                                         1 1 1 1                                                        1   1  1  1
                   SE ln(OR) =            + + +                                  SEln(OR) =               +   + +   =   0.87 = 0.93
                                         a b c d                                                        2 18 4 16


                  Peto odds ratio

                                 ⎛ observed − expected events ⎞       ⎛O − E ⎞                  ⎛2 − 3⎞
                   OR Peto = exp ⎜                            ⎟ = exp ⎜      ⎟    ORPeto = exp ⎜⎜      ⎟⎟ = 0.47
                                 ⎝          variance          ⎠       ⎝ v ⎠                     ⎝ 1.31 ⎠


                                   ⎛n ⎞                                                ⎛ 20 ⎞
                   where       E = ⎜ e ⎟ × (a + c )                               E = ⎜⎜    ⎟⎟ × (2 + 4) = 3
                                   ⎝N⎠                                                 ⎝ 40 ⎠


                                n e n c (a + c) (b + d)                                 20 × 20 × 6 × 34
                   and v =                                                        v=                          = 1.31
                                      N 2 (N − 1)                                         402 ( 40 − 1)


                   ln(OR P eto ) = ln [OR P eto ]                                 ln(OR P eto ) = −0.76


                                         1                                                                1
                   SE ln( O R Peto ) =                                            SE ln( O R Peto ) =         = 0.87
                                         v                                                               1.31



               Dichotomous/binary outcomes
               Dichotomous outcomes are those that either happen or do not happen and an individual
               can be in one of only two states, for example having an acute myocardial infarction or
               not having an infarction. Dichotomous outcomes are most commonly expressed in terms
               of risks or odds. Although, in everyday use, the terms risk and odds are often used to
               mean the same thing, in the context of statistical evaluation they have quite specific
               meanings.
               Risk describes the probability with which a health outcome will occur and is often
               expressed as a decimal number between 0.0 and 1.0, where 0.0 indicates that there is
               no risk of the event occurring, and 1.0 indicating certainty that the event will take place.
               A risk of 0.4 indicates that about four in ten people will experience the event. Odds
               describe the ratio of the probability that an event will happen to the probability that it


                                                                                                                                      57



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 57                                                                                                        8/1/09 09:28:56
          Systematic Reviews


          will not happen and can take any value between zero and infinity. Odds are sometimes
          expressed as the ratio of two integers such that 0.001 can be written 1:1000 indicating
          that for every one individual who will experience the event, one thousand will not.
          Risk ratios (RR), also known as relative risks, indicate the change in risk brought about
          by an intervention and are calculated as the probability of an event in the intervention
          group divided by the probability of an event in the control group (where the probability
          of an event is estimated by the total number of events observed in the group divided
          by the total number of individuals in that group). A risk ratio of 2.0 indicates that the
          intervention leads to the risk becoming twice that of the comparator. A risk ratio of 0.75
          indicates that the risk has been reduced to three quarters of that of the comparator.
          This can also be expressed in terms of a reduction in risk whereby the relative risk
          reduction (RRR) is given as one minus the risk ratio multiplied by 100. For example, a
          risk ratio of 2.0 corresponds to a relative risk reduction of –100% (a 100% increase),
          while a risk ratio of 0.75 corresponds to a relative risk reduction of 25%. Box 1.6
          illustrates the calculation of these measures and further details of the formulae can be
          found elsewhere.137
          Risk ratios can be combined using the generic inverse variance method applied to the
          log risk ratio and its standard error (either in a fixed effect or a random-effects model).
          Odds ratios (OR) describe the ratio of the odds of events occurring on treatment to the
          odds of events occurring on control, and therefore describes the multiplication of the
          odds of the outcome that occur with use of the intervention. Box 1.6 illustrates how
          to calculate the odds ratio for a single study. Odds ratios can be combined using the
          generic inverse variance method applied to the log odds ratio and its standard error as
          described above.
          The Mantel-Haenszel method for combining risk ratios or odds ratios, which uses a
          different weighting scheme, is more robust when data are sparse, but assumes a fixed
          effect model.137
          The Peto odds ratio139 (ORPeto) is an alternative estimate of a combined odds ratio in a
          fixed effect model, and is based on the difference between the observed number of events
          and the number of events that would be expected (O – E) if there was no difference
          between experimental and control interventions (see Box 1.6). Combining studies using
          the Peto method is straightforward, and it may be particularly useful for meta-analysis of
          dichotomous data when event rates are very low, and where other methods fail.

                                                         ⎛ sum of (O − E ) across studies ⎞
                                 OR PetoC om bined = exp ⎜                                ⎟
                                                         ⎝ sum of (v) across studies ⎠

          This approach works well when the effect is small (that is when the odds ratio is
          close to 1.0), events are relatively uncommon, and there are similar numbers in the
          experimental and control groups. The approach is commonly used to combine data from
          cancer trials which generally conform to these expectations. Correction for zero cells is
          not necessary (see below) and the method appears to perform better than alternative
          approaches when events are very rare. It can also be used to combine time-to-event
          data by pooling log rank observed minus expected (O – E) events and associated
          variance. However, the Peto method does give biased answers in some circumstances,


          58



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 58                                                                          8/1/09 09:28:57
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               especially when treatment effects are very large, or where there is a lack of balance in
               treatment allocation within the individual studies.140 Such conditions will not usually apply
               to RCTs but may be particularly important when combining the results of observational
               studies which are often unbalanced.
               Although both risk ratios and odds ratios are perfectly valid ways of describing a
               treatment effect, it is important to note that they are not the same measure, cannot
               be used interchangeably and should not be confused. When events are relatively rare,
               say less than 10%,141 differences between the two will be small, but where the event
               rate is high, differences will be large. For treatments that increase the chance of events,
               the odds ratio will be larger than the risk ratio and for interventions that reduce the
               chance of events, the odds ratio will be smaller than the risk ratio. Thus if an odds
               ratio is misinterpreted as a risk ratio it will lead to an overestimation of the effect of
               intervention. Unfortunately, this error in interpretation is quite common in published
               reports of individual studies and systematic reviews. Although some statisticians
               prefer odds ratios owing to their mathematical properties (they do not have inherent
               range limitations associated with high baseline rates and naturally arise as the antilog
               of coefficients in mathematical modelling, making them more suitable for statistical
               manipulation), they have been criticised for not being well understood by clinicians and
               patients.142, 143 It may therefore be preferable, even when calculations have been based
               on odds ratios, to transform the findings to describe results as changes in the more
               intuitively understandable concept of risk.
               Neither the risk ratio nor the odds ratio can be calculated for a trial if there are no
               events in the control group (as calculation would involve division by zero), and so in
               this situation it is customary to add 0.5 to each cell of the 2x2 table.137 If there are no
               events (or all participants experience the event) in both groups, then the trial provides
               no information about relative probability and so it is omitted from the meta-analysis.
               These situations are likely to occur when the event of interest is rare, and in such
               situations the choice of effect measure requires careful thought. A simulation study has
               shown that when events are rare, most meta-analysis methods give biased estimates of
               effect,144 and that the Peto odds ratio (which does not require a 0.5 correction) may be
               the least biased.


               Continuous outcomes
               Continuous outcomes are those that take any value in a specified range and can
               theoretically be measured to many decimal places of accuracy, for example, blood
               pressure or weight. Many other quantitative outcomes are typically treated as continuous
               data in meta-analysis, including measurement scales. Continuous data are usually
               summarized as means and presented with an indication of the variation around the mean
               using the standard deviation (SD) or standard error (SE). The effect of an intervention on
               a continuous outcome is measured by the absolute difference between the mean outcome
               observed for the experimental intervention and control, termed the mean difference (MD).
               This estimates the amount by which the treatment changes the outcome on average and
               is expressed:




                                                                                                          59



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 59                                                                             8/1/09 09:28:58
          Systematic Reviews



                                     MD = Meanexperimental − Meancontrol


                                               ⎛ SD2 experimental ⎞ ⎛ SD2 control ⎞
                                     SEMD =    ⎜                  ⎟+⎜             ⎟
                                               ⎜ nexperimental ⎟ ⎜ ncontrol ⎟
                                               ⎝                  ⎠ ⎝             ⎠

          Study mean differences and their associated standard errors can be combined using the
          generic inverse variance method.
          Where studies assess the same outcome but measure it using different scales (for
          example, different quality of life scales), the individual study results must be
          standardised before they can be combined. This is done using the standardised mean
          difference (SMD), which considers the effect size in each study relative to the variability
          in the study and is calculated as the mean difference divided by the standard deviation
          among all participants. Where scales differ in direction of effect (i.e. some increase with
          increasing severity of outcome whilst others decrease with increasing severity), this
          needs to be accounted for by assigning negative values to the mean of one set of studies
          thereby giving all scales the same direction of measurement. There are three commonly
          used methods of recording the effect size in the standardised mean difference method,
          Cohen’s d,145 Hedges adjusted g,145 and Glass’ delta.146 The first two differ in whether the
          standard deviation is adjusted for small sample bias. The third differs from the other two
          by standardizing by the control group standard deviation rather than an average standard
          deviation across both groups. The standardised mean difference assumes that differences
          in the standard deviation between studies reflect differences in the measurement scale
          and not differences between the study populations. The summary intervention effect can
          be difficult to interpret as it is presented in abstract units of standard deviation rather than
          any particular scale.
          Note that in social science meta-analyses, the term ‘effect size’ usually refers to versions
          of the standardised mean difference.


          Time-to-event outcomes
          Time-to-event analysis takes account not only of whether an event happens but when
          it happens. This is especially important in chronic diseases where even although we
          may not be able to ultimately stop an event from happening, slowing its occurrence
          can be beneficial. For example, in cancer studies in adult patients we rarely anticipate
          cure, but hope that we can significantly prolong survival. Time-to-event data are often
          referred to as ‘survival’ data since death is often the event of interest, but can be used
          for many different types of event such as time free of seizures, time to healing or time
          to conception. Each study participant has data capturing the event status and the time
          of that status. An individual may be recorded with a particular elapsed time-to-event, or
          they may be recorded as not having experienced the event by a particular elapsed time
          or period of follow-up. When the event has not (yet) been observed, the individual is
          described as censored, and their event-free time contributes information to the analysis
          up until the point of censoring.
          The most appropriate way to analyse time-to-event data is usually to use Kaplan Meier
          analysis and express results as a hazard ratio (HR). The HR summarises the entire


          60



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 60                                                                               8/1/09 09:28:58
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               survival experience and describes the overall likelihood of a participant experiencing an
               event on the experimental intervention compared to control. Meta-analyses that collect
               individual participant data are able to carry out such analysis for each included study
               and then pool these using a variant of the Peto method described above. Alternatively a
               modelling approach can be used.
               Meta-analyses of aggregate data often treat time-to-event data as dichotomous and
               carry out analyses using the numbers of individuals who did or did not experience
               an event by a particular point in time. However, using such dichotomous measures
               in a meta-analysis of time-to-event outcomes is discarding information and can pose
               additional problems. If the total number of events reported for each study is used to
               calculate an odds ratio or risk ratio, this can involve combining studies reported at
               different stages of maturity, with variable follow-up, resulting in an estimate that is both
               unreliable and difficult to interpret. This approach is not recommended. Alternatively,
               ORs or RRs can be calculated at specific points in time. Although this makes estimates
               comparable, interpretation can still be difficult, particularly if individual studies
               contribute data at different time points. In this case it is unclear whether any observed
               difference in effect between time points is attributable to the timing or to the analyses
               being based on different sets of contributing studies. Furthermore, bias could arise if
               the time points are subjectively chosen by the researcher or selectively reported by the
               study author at times of maximal or minimal difference between intervention groups.
               A preferable approach is to estimate HRs by using and manipulating published or other
               summary statistical data or survival curves.147, 148 This approach has also been described
               in non-technical step-by-step terms.149 Currently, such methods are under-used in
               meta-analyses,149 which may reflect unfamiliarity with the methods and that study
               reports do not always include the necessary statistical information150, 151 to allow the
               methods to be used.


               Ordinal outcomes
               Outcomes may be presented as ordinal scales, such as pain scales (where individuals’
               rate their pain as none, mild moderate or severe). These are sometimes analysed as
               continuous data, with each category being assigned a numerical value (for example,
               0 for none, 1 for mild, 2 for moderate and 3 for severe). This is usual when there are
               many categories, as is the case for many psychometric scales such as the Hamilton
               depression scale or the Mini-Mental State Examination for measuring cognition.
               However, a mean value may not be meaningful. Thus, an alternative way to analyse
               ordinal data is to dichotomise them (e.g. none or mild versus moderate or severe) to
               produce a standard 2×2 table. Methods are available for analysing ordinal data directly,
               but these typically require expert input.


               Counts and rates
               When outcomes can be experienced repeatedly they are usually expressed as event
               counts, for example, the number of asthma attacks. When these represent common
               events, they are often treated and analysed as continuous data (for example, number of
               days in hospital) and where they represent uncommon events they are often dichotomised
               (for example, whether or not each individual had at least one stroke).



                                                                                                        61



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 61                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:58
          Systematic Reviews


          When events are rare, analyses usually focus on rates expressed at the group level, such
          as the number of asthma attacks per person, per month. Although these can be combined
          as rate ratios using the generic inverse variance method, this is not always appropriate
          as it assumes a constant risk over time and over individuals, and is not often done in
          practice. It is important not to treat rate data as dichotomous data because more than
          one event may have arisen from the same individual.


          Presentation of quantitative results
          Results should be expressed in formats that are easily understood, and in both relative
          and absolute terms.
          Where possible, results should be shown graphically. The most commonly used graphic
          is the forest plot (see Box 1.7), which illustrates the effect estimates from individual
          studies and the overall summary estimate. It also gives a good visual summary of the
          review findings, allowing researchers and readers to get a sense of the data. Forest
          plots provide a simple representation of the precision of individual and overall results
          and of the variation between-study results. They give an ‘at a glance’ identification of
          any studies with outlying or unusual results and can also indicate whether particular
          studies are driving the overall results. Forest plots can be used to illustrate results for
          dichotomous, continuous and time-to-event outcomes.152
          Individual study results are shown as boxes centred on their estimate of effect, with
          extending horizontal lines indicating their confidence intervals. The confidence interval
          expresses the uncertainty around the point estimate, describing a range of values within
          which it is reasonably certain that the true effect lies; wider confidence intervals reflect
          greater uncertainty. Although intervals can be reported for any level of confidence,
          in most systematic reviews of health interventions, the 95% confidence interval is
          used. Thus, on the forest plot, studies with wide horizontal lines represent studies with
          more uncertain results. Different sized boxes may be plotted for each of the individual
          studies, the area of the box representing the weight that the study takes in the analysis
          providing a visual representation of the relative contribution that each study makes to
          the overall effect.
          The plot shows a vertical line of equivalence indicating the value where there is no
          difference between groups. For odds ratios, risk ratios or hazard ratios this line will
          be drawn at an odds ratio/risk ratio/hazard ratio value of 1.0, while for risk difference
          and mean difference it will be drawn through zero. Studies reach conventional levels
          of statistical significance where their confidence intervals do not cross the vertical line.
          Summary (meta-analytic) results are usually presented as diamonds whose extremities
          show the confidence interval for the summary estimate. A summary estimate reaches
          conventional levels of statistical significance if these extremities do not cross the line
          of no effect. If individual studies are too dissimilar to calculate an overall summary
          estimate of effect, a forest plot that omits the summary value and diamond can be
          produced.
          Odds ratios, risk ratios and hazard ratios can be plotted on a log-scale to introduce
          symmetry to the plot. The plot should also incorporate the extracted numerical data
          for the groups for each study, e.g. the number of events and number of individuals for
          odds ratios, the mean and standard deviation for continuous outcomes. Other forms of
          graphical displays have also been proposed.153


          62



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 62                                                                           8/1/09 09:28:58
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions




                  Box 1.7: Effects of four trials included in a systematic review

                  a) Presented without meta-analysis
                    Review:             EVAR meta-analysis
                    Comparison:         01 EVAR vs. open repair
                    Outcome:            01 30-day mortality

                    Study                                            EVAR                 Open repair                        OR (fixed)                               OR (fixed)
                    or sub-category                                   n/N                     n/N                             95% CI                                   95% CI

                    Cuypers 2001                                  1/57                 1/19                                                                  0.32 [0.02, 5.40]
                    DREAM 2004                                    2/171                8/174                                                                 0.25 [0.05, 1.17]
                    EVAR I 2004                                   9/531               24/516                                                                 0.35 [0.16, 0.77]
                    Soulez 2005                                   0/20                 0/20                                                                     Not estimable

                                                                                                        0.1   0.2      0.5        1        2        5   10
                                                                                                          Favours treatment           Favours control




                  b) Presented with meta-analysis (fixed effect model)
                    Review:             EVAR meta-analysis
                    Comparison:         01 EVAR vs. open repair
                    Outcome:            01 30-day mortality

                    Study                                           EVAR                  Open repair                     OR (fixed)                                  OR (fixed)
                    or sub-category                                  n/N                      n/N                          95% CI                                      95% CI

                    Cuypers 2001                                  1/57                 1/19                                                                  0.32 [0.02, 5.40]
                    DREAM 2004                                    2/171                8/174                                                                 0.25 [0.05, 1.17]
                    EVAR I 2004                                   9/531               24/516                                                                 0.35 [0.16, 0.77]
                    Soulez 2005                                   0/20                 0/20                                                                     Not estimable

                   Total (95% CI)                                       779               729                                                                0.33 [0.17, 0.64]
                   Total events: 12 (EVAR), 33 (Open repair)
                   Test for heterogeneity: Chi? = 0.17, df = 2 (P = 0.92), I? = 0%
                   Test for overall effect: Z = 3.25 (P = 0.001)

                                                                                                        0.1   0.2      0.5       1        2        5    10
                                                                                                          Favours treatment           Favours control




                  c)        Presented with meta-analysis (random-effects model)
                    Review:             EVAR meta-analysis
                    Comparison:         01 EVAR vs. open repair
                    Outcome:            01 30-day mortality

                    Study                                            EVAR                 Open repair                    OR (random)                                 OR (random)
                    or sub-category                                   n/N                     n/N                          95% CI                                      95% CI

                    Cuypers 2001                                  1/57                 1/19                                                                  0.32 [0.02, 5.40]
                    DREAM 2004                                    2/171                8/174                                                                 0.25 [0.05, 1.17]
                    EVAR I 2004                                   9/531               24/516                                                                 0.35 [0.16, 0.77]
                    Soulez 2005                                   0/20                 0/20                                                                     Not estimable

                    Total (95% CI)                                       779               729                                                               0.33 [0.17, 0.65]
                    Total events: 12 (EVAR), 33 (Open repair)
                    Test for heterogeneity: Chi? = 0.17, df = 2 (P = 0.92), I? = 0%
                    Test for overall effect: Z = 3.23 (P = 0.001)

                                                                                                        0.1   0.2      0.5        1        2        5   10
                                                                                                          Favours treatment           Favours control




                  Example forest plots taken from a systematic review of endovascular stents for
                  abdominal aortic aneurism (EVAR).154




                                                                                                                                                                                   63



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 63                                                                                                                                                     8/1/09 09:28:59
          Systematic Reviews


          Relative and absolute effects
          Risk ratios, odds ratios and hazard ratios describe relative effects of one intervention
          versus another, providing a measure of the overall chance of the event occurring on the
          experimental intervention compared to control. These relative effects do not provide
          information on what this comparison means in absolute terms. Although there may
          be a large relative effect of an intervention, if the absolute risk is small, it may not be
          clinically significant because the change in absolute terms is minimal (a big percentage
          of a small amount may still be a small amount). For example, a risk ratio of 0.8 may
          represent a 20% relative reduction in events from 50% to 40% or it could represent
          a 20% relative reduction from 5% to 4% corresponding to absolute differences of
          10% and 1% respectively. There may be situations where the former is judged to be
          clinically significant whilst the latter is not. Meta-analysis should use ratio measures; for
          example, dichotomous data should be combined as risk ratios or odds ratios and pooling
          risk differences should be avoided. However, when reporting results it is generally
          useful to convert relative effects to absolute effects. This can be expressed as either an
          absolute difference or as a number needed to treat (NNT). Absolute change is usually
          expressed as an absolute risk reduction which can be calculated from the underlying risk
          of experiencing an event if no intervention were given and the observed relative effect
          as shown in Box 1.8.



               Box 1.8: Calculation of absolute risk reduction and number needed to
               treat from relative risks, odds ratios and hazard ratios

               Absolute risk reduction from relative risk

               ARR = (RR − 1) Riskbaseline


               Absolute risk reduction from odds ratio155

                             (1 − Risk baseline ) (1 − OR)
               ARR =                                             × Risk baseline
                         Risk baseline + OR (1 − Risk baseline )


               Absolute risk reduction from hazard ratio156

               ARR = Scontrol HR – Scontrol at chosen time point


               Number needed to treat

                           1
               NNT =
                         ARR


               Where:
               RR = relative risk                                            ARR = absolute risk reduction
               Scontrol = proportion event free on control treatment         HR = hazard ratio



          64



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 64                                                                               8/1/09 09:28:59
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Consideration of absolute effects is particularly important when considering how results
               apply to different types of individuals who may have different underlying prognoses and
               associated risks. Even if there is no evidence that the relative effects of an intervention
               vary across different types of individual (see Subgroup analyses and Meta-regression
               below), if the underlying risks for different categories of individual differ, then the
               effect of intervention in absolute terms will be different. It is therefore important when
               reporting results to consider how the absolute effect of an intervention varies for
               different types of individual and a table expressing results in this way, as shown in Table
               1.5, can be useful. The underlying risk for different types of individual can be estimated
               from the studies included in the meta-analysis, or generally accepted standard
               estimates can be used. Confidence intervals should be calculated around absolute
               effects.

               Table 1.5: Example table expressing relative effects as absolute effects for
               individuals with differing underlying prognoses.

                                                                                   2 year survival rate

               HR = 0.84                              Baseline      Absolute increase         Change
               95% CI (0·78–0·92)                                   (95% CI)

               Age                       <=40         50%           5% (3% – 8%)              From 50 to 55%
                                         41-59        14%           5% (2% – 8%)              From 14 to 19%
                                         >=60         4%            2% (1% – 4%)              From 4 to 6%
               Histology                 AA           31%           6% (3% – 9%)              From 31 to 37%
                                         GBM          9%            4% (2% – 6%)              From 9 to 13%
                                         Other        52%           5% (3% – 8%)              From 52 to 57%
               Performance               Good         22%           6% (3% – 9%)              From 22 to 28%
               Status                    Poor         9%            4% (2% – 6%)              From 9 to 13%

               Baseline survival and equivalent absolute increases in survival calculated from a meta-analysis of
               chemotherapy in high-grade glioma.157
               AA = anaplastic astrocytoma, GBM = glioblastoma multiforme.



               The NNT, which is derived from the absolute risk reduction as shown in Box 1.8, also
               depends on both relative effect and the underlying risk. The NNT represents the number
               of individuals who need to be treated to prevent one event that would be experienced
               on the control intervention. The lower the number needed to treat, the fewer the
               patients that need to be treated to prevent one event, and the greater the efficacy of
               the treatment. For example a meta-analysis of antiplatelet agents for the prevention
               of pre-eclampsia found an RR of 0.90 (0.84 – 0.97) for pre-eclampsia.158 Plausible
               underlying risks of 2%, 6% and 18% had associated NNTs of 500 (313-1667), 167
               (104-556) and 56 (35-185) respectively.


               Sensitivity analyses
               Sensitivity analyses explore the robustness of the main meta-analysis results by
               repeating the analyses having made some changes to the data or methods.159 Analyses
               run with and without the inclusion of certain trials will assess the degree to which


                                                                                                                    65



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 65                                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:00
          Systematic Reviews


          particular studies (perhaps those with poorer methodology) affect the results. For
          example, analyses might be carried out on all eligible trials and a sensitivity analysis
          restricted to only those that used a placebo in the control group. If results differ
          substantially, the final results will require careful interpretation. However care must be
          taken in attributing reasons for differences, especially when a single or small numbers
          of trials are included/excluded in the sensitivity analysis, as a study may differ in
          additional ways to the issue being explored in the sensitivity analysis. Some sensitivity
          analyses should be proposed in the protocol, but as many issues suitable for exploration
          in sensitivity analyses only come to light whilst the review is being done, and in
          response to decisions made or difficulties encountered, these may have to change and/
          or be supplemented.


          Exploring heterogeneity
          There will inevitably be variation in the observed estimates of effect from the
          studies included in a meta-analysis. Some of this variation arises by chance alone,
          reflecting the fact that no study is so large that random error can be removed
          entirely. Statistical heterogeneity refers to variation other than that which arises by
          chance. It reflects methodological or clinical differences between studies. Exploring
          statistical heterogeneity in a meta-analysis aims to tease out the factors contributing
          to differences, such that sources of heterogeneity can be accounted for and taken into
          consideration when interpreting results and drawing conclusions.
          There is inevitably a degree of clinical diversity between the studies included in a
          review,160 for example because of differing patient characteristics and differences in
          interventions. If these factors influence the estimated intervention effect then there
          will be some statistical heterogeneity between studies. Methodological differences that
          influence the observed intervention effect will also lead to statistical heterogeneity. For
          example, combining results from blinded and unblinded studies may lead to statistical
          heterogeneity, indicating that they might best be analysed separately rather than in
          combination. Although it manifests itself in the same way, heterogeneity arising from
          clinical differences is likely to be because of differences in the true intervention effect,
          whereas heterogeneity arising from differences in methodology is more likely to be
          because of bias.
          An idea of heterogeneity can be obtained straightforwardly by visually examining forest
          plots for variations in effects. If there is poor overlap between the study confidence
          intervals, then this generally indicates statistical heterogeneity.
          More formally a χ2 (chi-squared) test (see Box 1.9), often also referred to as Q-
          statistic, can assess whether differences between results are compatible with chance
          alone. However, care must be taken in interpreting the chi-squared test as it has low
          power, consequently a larger P value (P<0.1) is sometimes used to designate statistical
          significance. Although a statistically significant test result may point to a problem with
          heterogeneity, a nonsignificant test result does not preclude important between-study
          differences, and cannot be taken as evidence of no heterogeneity. Conversely, if there
          are many studies in a meta-analysis, the test has high power to detect a small amount
          of heterogeneity that, although statistically significant, may not be clinically important.




          66



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 66                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:00
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Accepting that diversity is likely to be inherent in any review, methods have also been
               developed to quantify the degree of inconsistency across studies, shifting the focus
               from significance testing to quantifying heterogeneity. The I2 statistic160, 161 describes the
               percentage of variability in the effect estimates that can be attributed to heterogeneity
               rather than chance (see Box 1.9).



                  Box 1.9: Chi-squared test (or Q-statistic) and test for interaction

                  Chi-squared test:

                                                        1                            22
                                             Q=∑             2
                                                                 (EE − EE
                                                                    i       pooled   )
                                                      SE i

                                                  ⎡ Q − df ⎤
                                             I2 = ⎢        ⎥ × 100%
                                                  ⎣   Q    ⎦

                  Where Q is the chi-squared statistic, and df its degrees of freedom.
                  To examine differences across subgroups, either Q or I2 can be applied to meta-
                  analytic results from each subgroup rather than to individual studies (i.e. the sum in
                  Q is across subgroups rather than across studies).



               Although the I2 statistic often has wide confidence intervals and it is difficult to provide
               hard and fast rules on what level of inconsistency is reasonable in a meta-analysis, as
               a rough guide it has been suggested that I2 values of up to 40% might be unimportant,
               30% to 60% might be moderate, 50 to 90% may be substantial and 75% to 100%
               considerable.75
               If statistical heterogeneity is observed, then the possible reasons for differences should
               be explored162 and a decision made about if and how it is appropriate to combine
               studies. A systematic review does not always need to include a meta-analysis and, if
               there are substantial differences between study estimates of effect, particularly if they
               are in opposing directions, combining results in a meta-analysis can be misleading.
               One way of addressing this is to split studies into less heterogeneous groups according
               to particular study level characteristics (e.g. by type of drug), and perform separate
               analyses for each group. Forest plots can be produced to show subsets of studies on
               the same plot. Each subset of studies can have its own summary estimate, and if
               appropriate an overall estimate combined across all studies can also be shown. Showing
               these groupings alongside each other in this way provides a good visual summary of
               how they compare. This approach allows the consistency and inconsistency between
               subsets of studies to be examined. Differences can be summarised narratively, but where
               possible they should also be evaluated formally. A χ2 test for differences across subgroups
               can be carried out (see Box 1.9).




                                                                                                           67



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 67                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:00
          Systematic Reviews


          The influence of patient-level characteristics (e.g. age, gender) or issues related to
          equity (e.g. ethnicity, socioeconomic group) can also be explored through subgroup
          analyses, meta-regression or other modelling approaches. However, there is generally
          insufficient information in published study reports to allow full exploration of
          heterogeneity in this way and this can usually only be addressed satisfactorily when IPD
          are available. Such exploration of heterogeneity may enable additional questions to be
          addressed, such as which particular treatments perform best or which types of patient
          will benefit most, but is unlikely to be helpful when there are few studies. Wherever
          possible, potential sources of heterogeneity should be considered when writing the
          review protocol and possible subgroup analyses pre-specified rather than trying to
          explain statistical heterogeneity after the fact.


          Subgroup analyses
          Subgroup analyses divide studies (for study level characteristics) or participant data (for
          participant level characteristics) into subgroups and make indirect comparisons between
          them. These analyses may be carried out to explore heterogeneity (see above) as well
          as to try to answer particular questions about patient or study factors. For example a
          subgroup analysis for study level characteristics might examine whether the results of
          trials carried out in primary health care settings are the same as trials carried out in a
          hospital setting. A participant level subgroup analysis might examine whether the effect
          of the intervention is the same in men as in women.
          In individual studies it is unusual to have sufficient numbers and statistical power to
          permit reliable subgroup analyses of patient characteristics. However, provided that
          such data have been collected uniformly across studies, a meta-analysis may achieve
          sufficient power in each subgroup to permit a more reliable exploration of whether
          the effect of an intervention is larger (or smaller) for any particular type of individual.
          Although, owing to the multiplicity of testing, these analyses are still potentially
          misleading, subgroup analysis within the context of a large meta-analysis may be the
          only reasonable way of performing such exploratory investigations. Not only do the
          greater numbers give increased statistical power, but consistency across trials can be
          investigated. Indeed, the possibility of undertaking such analyses is a major attraction
          of IPD meta-analyses as dividing participant data into groups for subgroup analysis is
          seldom possible in standard reviews of aggregate data.163 Subgroup analyses in most
          (non IPD) systematic reviews focus on grouping according to trial attributes.
          The interpretation of the results of subgroup analyses must be treated with some caution.
          Even where the original data have come from RCTs, the investigation of between-study
          differences is indirect and equivalent to an observational study.164, 165 There may be
          explanations for the observed differences between groups, other than the attributes
          chosen to categorise groupings. Comparisons which are planned in advance on the basis
          of a plausible hypothesis and written into the protocol are more credible than findings
          that are found through post hoc exploratory analyses. Furthermore, the likelihood of
          finding false negative and false positive significance tests rises rapidly as more subgroup
          analyses are done. Subgroups should therefore be restricted to a few potentially
          important characteristics where it is reasonable to suspect that the characteristic will
          interact with or modify the effect of the intervention. Note that there is often confusion
          between prognostic factors and potential effect modifiers; just because a characteristic is



          68



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 68                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:01
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               prognostic does not mean that it will modify the effect of an intervention. For example,
               whilst gender is prognostic for survival (women live longer than men) it does not
               necessarily mean that women will benefit more than men will from a drug to treat lung
               cancer.


               Meta-regression
               Meta-regression can be used to investigate the effects of differences in study
               characteristics on the estimates of the treatment effect,140 and can explore continuous as
               well as categorical characteristics. In principle it can allow for the simultaneous exploration
               of several characteristics and their interactions, though in practice this is seldom possible
               because of small numbers of studies.166 As in any simple regression analysis, meta-
               regression aims to predict outcome according to explanatory variables or covariates of
               interest. The covariates may be constant for the entire trial, for example, the protocol
               dose of a drug, or a summary measure of attributes describing the patient population,
               for example, mean age or percentage of males. The regression is weighted by precision
               of study estimates such that larger studies have more influence than smaller studies.
               The regression coefficient is tested to establish whether there is an association between
               the intervention effect and the covariate of interest. Provided that enough data are
               available (at least 10 studies),82 the technique may be a useful exploratory tool.
               However, there are limitations. Not all publications will report on all the covariates of
               interest (and there could be potential bias associated with selective presentation of data
               that have shown a positive association within a primary study). If a study is missing
               a covariate it drops out of the regression, limiting the power and usefulness of the
               analysis, which is already likely to be based on relatively few data points.
               Meta-regression is not a good way to explore differences in treatment effects
               between different types of individual as summary data may misrepresent individual
               participants.167 What is true of a study with a median participant age of 60 may not
               necessarily be true for a 60-year-old patient. Potentially all the benefit could have
               been shown in the 50-year-olds and none in the 60 and 70-year-olds. Comparison of
               treatment effects between different types of individual, for example between men and
               women, should be done using subgroup analyses and not by using meta-regression
               incorporating the proportion of women in each trial. It should always be borne in mind
               that finding a significant association in a meta-regression does not prove causality and
               should rather be regarded as hypothesis generating.


               Assessing the possibility of publication bias
               Although thorough searches should ensure that a systematic review captures as many
               relevant studies as possible, they cannot eliminate the risk of publication bias. As
               publication and associated biases can potentially influence profoundly the findings of
               a review, the risk of such bias should be considered in the review’s conclusions and
               inferences.24 The book by Rothstein et al provides a comprehensive discussion of
               publication bias and associated issues.168
               The obvious way to test for publication bias is to compare formally the results of
               published and unpublished studies. However, more often than not unpublished studies
               are hidden from the reviewer, and more ad hoc methods are required. A common
               technique to help assess potential publication bias is the funnel plot.


                                                                                                           69



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 69                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:01
          Systematic Reviews


          This is a scatter plot based on the fact that precision in estimating effect increases with
          increasing sample size. Effect size is plotted against some measure of study precision
          – of which standard error is likely to be the best choice.169 A wide scatter in results of
          small studies, with the spread narrowing as the trial size increases, is expected. If there
          is no difference between the results of small and large studies, the shape of the plot
          should resemble an inverted funnel (see Box 1.10). If there are differences, the plot will
          be skewed and a gap where the small unfavourable studies ought to be is often cited
          as evidence of publication bias. However, the shape of a funnel plot can also depend on
          the measures selected for estimating effect and precision169, 170 and could be attributable
          to differences between small and large studies other than publication bias. These
          differences could be a result of other types of methodological bias, or genuine clinical
          differences. For example, small studies may have a more selected participant population
          where a larger treatment effect might be expected. Funnel plots are therefore more
          accurately described as a tool for investigating small study effects.



               Box 1.10: Example funnel plots from a systematic review of dressings
               and topical agents used in the healing of chronic wounds183

                                 Symmetrical                                      Asymmetrical




                                 o Traditional vs. dressing/topical agent other than hydrocolloid
                                           n Traditional vs. hydrocolloid dressing only

               This funnel plot, of all the studies that            This funnel plot, of trials that compared
               compared traditional treatments with                 traditional treatments with hydrocolloid
               modern dressing or topical agents for the            dressings for the treatment of leg
               treatment of leg ulcers and pressure sores,          ulcers and pressure sores, showed clear
               showed little evidence of asymmetry.                 asymmetry. This was considered likely to
                                                                    be the result of publication bias.




          70



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 70                                                                                  8/1/09 09:29:01
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Although visual inspection of funnel plots has been shown to be unreliable,170, 171 this
               might be improved if contour zones illustrating conventional levels of significance
               are overlaid on the plot to illustrate whether ‘missing’ studies are from zones of
               statistical significance or not. If the ‘missing’ studies are from nonsignificant zones,
               this may support a publication bias. On the other hand if ‘missing’ studies are from
               statistically significant zones, the asymmetry may be more likely to be attributable
               to other causes.172 Over time a range of statistical and modelling methods have been
               developed to test for asymmetry, the most frequently used of which are those based
               on rank correlation173 or linear regression174, 175 and complex modelling176 methods.
               Some methods (for example, the trim and fill method177, 178) attempt to adjust for
               any publication bias detected.176 However, all methods are by nature indirect and the
               appropriateness of many methods is based on some strict assumptions that can be
               difficult to justify in practice.
               Although frequently used to help assess possible publication bias, funnel plots and
               associated statistical tests are often used and interpreted inappropriately,179, 180
               potentially giving false assurance where a symmetrical plot overlooks important
               bias or undermining important valid evidence because of an asymmetric plot.179 The
               methods are inappropriate where there is statistical heterogeneity; have low power
               and are of little use where there are few studies; and are meaningless where studies
               are of similar size. Consequently, situations where they are helpful are few and their
               use is not generally a good way of dealing with publication bias.181 Therefore use of
               these methods to identify or adjust for publication bias in a meta-analysis should be
               considered carefully and generally be restricted to sensitivity analyses. Results should
               be interpreted with caution. Statistical tests will not resolve bias and avoidance of
               publication bias is preferable. In time this may become easier with more widespread
               registration of clinical trials and other studies at inception.182


               Dealing with special study designs and analysis issues

               Intention to treat analyses
               ITT is usually the preferred type of analysis as it is less likely to introduce bias than
               alternative approaches. True intention to treat analysis captures two criteria: (i)
               participants should be analysed irrespective of whether or not they received their
               allocated intervention and irrespective of what occurred subsequently, for example,
               participants with protocol violations or those subsequently judged ineligible should be
               included in the analysis; (ii) all participants should be included irrespective of whether
               outcomes were collected. Although the first criterion is generally accepted, there is no
               clear consensus on the second81 as it involves including participants in the analyses
               whose outcomes are unknown, and therefore requires imputation of data. Many authors
               describe their analyses as ITT when only the first criterion has been met. Alternative
               analysis of all participants for whom outcome data are available is termed available case
               analysis. Some studies present analysis of all participants who completed their allocated
               treatment, this is per protocol or treatment received analysis which may be seriously
               biased.




                                                                                                          71



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 71                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:02
          Systematic Reviews


          Imputing missing data
          Although statistical techniques are available to impute missing data, this cannot
          reliably compensate for missing data184 and in most situations imputation of data is
          not recommended. It is reasonable for most systematic reviews to aim for an available
          case analysis and include data from only those participants whose outcome is known.
          Achieving this may require making contact with the study author if individuals for whom
          outcome data were recorded have been excluded from the published analyses. The
          extent and implications of missing data should always be reported and discussed in
          the review. If the number of participants missing from the final analysis is large it will be
          helpful to detail the reasons for their exclusion.
          In some circumstances, it might be informative to impute data in sensitivity analyses
          to explore the impact of missing data.185 For missing dichotomous data the analysis
          can assume that either all participants with missing data experienced the event, or
          that they all did not experience the event. This generates the theoretical extremes of
          possible effect. Data could also be imputed using the rate of events observed in the
          control group, however this does not add information, gives inflated precision and is
          not recommended. Where missing data are few, imputation will have little impact on
          the results. Where missing data are substantial, analysis of worst/best case scenarios
          will give a wide range of possible effect sizes and may not be particularly helpful.
          Approaches to imputing missing continuous data have received little attention. In some
          cases it may be possible to use last observation carried forward, or to assume that no
          change took place. However, this cannot be done from aggregate data and the value of
          such analysis is unclear. Any researcher contemplating imputing missing data should
          consult with an experienced statistician.


          Cluster randomised trials
          In cluster randomised trials, groups rather than individuals are randomised, for example
          clinical practices or geographical areas. Reasons for allocating interventions in this
          way include evaluating policy interventions or group effects such as in immunisation
          programmes, and avoiding cross-contamination, for example, health promotion
          information may be easily shared by members of the same clinic or community. In
          many instances clustering will be obvious, for example where primary care practices
          are allocated to receive a particular intervention. In other situations the clustering
          may be less obvious, for example where multiple body parts on the same individual
          are allocated treatments or where a pregnant woman has more than one fetus. It is
          important that any cluster randomised trials are identified as such in the review.
          As participants within any one cluster are likely to respond in a manner more similar
          to each other than to other individuals (owing to shared environmental exposure or
          personal interactions), their data cannot be assumed to be independent. It is therefore
          inappropriate to ignore the clustering and analyse as though allocation had been at
          the individual level. This unit of analysis error would result in overly narrow confidence
          intervals and straightforward inclusion of trials analysed in this way would give undue
          weight to that study in a meta-analysis. Unfortunately, many primary studies have ignored
          clustering and analysed results as though from an individual randomised trial.186, 187 One
          way to avoid the problem of inappropriately analysed cluster trials is to carry out meta-




          72



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 72                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:02
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               analyses using a summary measure for each cluster as a single observation. The sample
               size becomes the number of clusters (not the number of individuals) and the analysis
               then proceeds as normal. However, depending on the size and number of clusters, this
               will reduce the statistical power of the analysis considerably and unnecessarily. Indeed the
               information required to do this is unlikely to be available in many study publications.
               A better approach is to adjust the results of inappropriately analysed primary studies
               to take account of the clustering, by increasing the standard error of the estimate of
               effect.75 This may be achieved by multiplying the original standard error by the square
               root of the ‘design effect’. The design effect can be calculated from the intracluster
               correlation coefficient, which, although seldom reported, can use external values from
               similar studies such as those available from the University of Aberdeen Health Services
               Research Unit (www.abdn.ac.uk/hsru/epp/iccs-web.xls). A common design effect is
               usually adopted across the intervention groups.

                                              DE = 1 + ⎡⎣(M − 1) × ICC ⎤⎦
                                              SE adjusted = SE DE

                                      where:
                                      DE = design effect
                                      M = mean cluster size
                                      ICC = intracluster correlation coefficient
                                      SE = standard error of the effect estimate
               These values can then be used in a generic inverse variance meta-analysis alongside
               unadjusted values from appropriately analysed trials.


               Cross-over trials
               Cross-over trials allocate each individual to a sequence of interventions, for example
               one group may be allocated to receive treatment A followed by treatment B, and the
               other group allocated to receive B followed by A. This type of trial has the advantage
               that each participant acts as their own control, eliminating between participant
               variability such that fewer participants are required to obtain the same statistical
               power. They are suitable for evaluating interventions that have temporary effects in
               treating stable conditions. They are not appropriate where an intervention can have a
               lasting effect that compromises treatment in subsequent periods of the trial, or where
               a condition has rapid evolution, or the primary outcome is irreversible. The first task of
               the researcher is to decide whether the cross-over design is appropriate in assessing the
               review question.
               Appropriate analysis of cross-over trials involves paired analysis, for example using
               a paired t-test to analyse a study with two interventions and two periods (using
               experimental measurement – control measurement) for each participant, with standard
               errors calculated for these paired measurements. These values can then be combined in
               a generic inverse variance meta-analysis. Unfortunately, cross-over trials are frequently
               inappropriately analysed and reported.




                                                                                                         73



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 73                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:02
          Systematic Reviews


          A common naive analysis of cross-over data is to treat all measurements on
          experimental and control interventions as if they were from a standard parallel group
          trial. This results in confidence intervals that are too wide and the trial receives too little
          weight in the meta-analysis. However, as this is a conservative approach, it might not
          be unreasonable in some circumstances. Where the effect of the first intervention is
          thought to have influenced the outcome in subsequent periods (carry-over), a common
          approach is to use only the data from the first period for each individual. However, this
          will be biased if the decision to analyse in this way is based on a test of carry-over and
          studies analysed in this way may differ from those using paired analyses. One approach
          to combining studies with differing types of reported analyses is to carry out an analysis
          grouped by type of study i.e. grouped by cross-over trial paired analysis, cross-over trial
          with first period analysis, parallel group trial, and explore whether their results differ
          (see Subgroup analyses above).
          Alternatively, the researcher can carry out their own paired analysis for each trial if
          (i) the mean and standard deviation or standard error of participant differences are
          available; (ii) the mean difference plus a t-statistic, p-value or confidence interval from
          a paired analysis is available; (iii) a graph from which individual matched measurements
          can be extracted; or (iv) if individual participant data are available.188 Another approach
          is to attempt to approximate a paired analysis by imputing missing standard errors by
          ‘borrowing’ from other studies that have used the same measurement scale or by a
          correlation coefficient obtained from other studies or external sources.75 Researchers
          will need to decide whether excluding trials is preferable to inferring data. If imputation
          is thought to be reasonable, advice should be sought from an experienced statistician.
          Authors should state explicitly where studies have used a cross-over design and how
          this has been handled in the meta-analysis.


          Mixed treatment comparisons
          Mixed treatment comparisons (MTC), or network meta-analyses, are used to analyse
          studies with multiple intervention groups and to synthesise evidence across a series
          of studies in which different interventions were compared. These are used to rank
          or identify the optimal intervention. They build a network of evidence that includes
          both direct evidence from head to head studies and indirect comparisons whereby
          interventions that have not been compared directly are linked through common
          comparators. A framework has been described that outlines some of the circumstances
          in which such syntheses might be considered.189 Methods for conducting indirect
          comparisons190, 191 and more complex mixed treatment methods192, 193 require expert
          advice. Researchers wishing to undertake such analyses should consult with an
          appropriately experienced statistician.


          Bayesian methods
          Unlike standard analysis techniques, Bayesian analyses allow for the combination of
          existing information with new evidence using established rules of probability.194 A simple
          Bayesian analysis model includes three key elements:

               1. Existing knowledge on the effect of an intervention can be retrieved from a
                  variety of sources and summarised as a prior distribution
               2. The data from the studies are used to form the likelihood function

          74



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 74                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:02
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


                  3. The prior distribution and the likelihood function are formally combined to
                     provide a posterior distribution which represents the updated knowledge about
                     the effect of the intervention
               Bayesian approaches to meta-analysis may be useful when evidence comes from a
               diverse range of sources particularly when few data from RCTs exist.195, 196 They can
               also be used to account for the uncertainty introduced by estimating the between-study
               variance in the random-effects model, which can lead to reliable estimates and predictions
               of treatment effects.197 While there are several good texts available,198-200 if a Bayesian
               approach is to be used, the advice of a statistical expert is strongly recommended.


               Describing results
               When describing review findings, the results of all analyses should be considered
               as a whole, and overall coherence discussed. Consistency across studies should be
               considered and results interpreted in relation to biological and clinical plausibility.
               Where there have been many analyses and tests, care should be taken in interpreting
               unexpected or implausible findings as among a large number of tests the play of chance
               alone is likely to generate spurious statistically significant results.
               Quantitative results of meta-analyses should be expressed as point estimates together
               with associated confidence intervals and exact p-values. They should not be presented
               or discussed only in terms of statistical significance. This is particularly important where
               results are not statistically significant as nonsignificance can arise both when estimates
               are close to no effect with narrow confidence intervals, or when estimates of effect
               are large with wide confidence intervals. Whilst in the former, we can be confident
               that there is little difference between the interventions compared, in the latter there is
               insufficient evidence to draw conclusions. Researchers should be aware that describing
               a result as ‘there is no statistical (or statistically significant) difference between the two
               interventions’ can be (mis)read as there being no difference between interventions.
               It is important that inconclusive results are not interpreted as indicating that an
               intervention is ineffective and estimates with wide confidence intervals that span no
               effect should be described as showing no clear evidence of a benefit or harm rather than
               as there being no difference between interventions. Demonstrating lack of sufficient
               evidence to reach a clear conclusion is an important finding in its own right.
               Similarly, care should be taken not to overplay results that are statistically significant,
               as with large enough numbers, even very modest differences between interventions can
               be statistically significant. The size of the estimated effect, and its confidence intervals,
               should be considered in view of how this relates to current or future practice (see
               Section 1.3.6 Report writing).
               It is usually helpful to present findings in both relative and absolute terms and in
               particular to consider how relative effects may translate into different absolute effects
               for people with differing underlying prognoses (see Relative and absolute effects section
               above). Where a number of outcomes or subgroup analyses are included in a review it
               can be helpful to tabulate the main findings in terms of effect, confidence intervals and
               inconsistency or heterogeneity statistics.




                                                                                                          75



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 75                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:03
          Systematic Reviews




               Summary: Data synthesis

               •    Synthesis involves bringing the results of individual studies together and
                    summarising their findings.
               •    This may be done quantitatively or, if formal pooling of results is inappropriate,
                    through a narrative approach.
               •    Synthesis should also explore whether observed intervention effects
                    are consistent across studies, and investigate possible reasons for any
                    inconsistencies.
               Initial descriptive synthesis
               All syntheses should begin by constructing a clear descriptive summary of the
               included studies.
               Narrative synthesis is frequently an essential part of a systematic review, and
               as with every other stage of the process, bias must be minimized.
               Narrative synthesis has typically not followed a strict set of rules. However, a
               general framework can be applied in order to help maintain transparency and add
               credibility to the process. The four elements of this framework are:
               •    Developing a theory of how the intervention works, why and for whom
               •    Developing a preliminary synthesis of findings of included studies
               •    Exploring relationships within and between studies
               •    Assessing the robustness of the synthesis
               Each element contains a range of tools and techniques that can be applied. A
               researcher is likely to move iteratively among the four elements, choosing those
               tools and techniques that are appropriate to the data being synthesised and
               providing justifications for these choices.
               Quantitative synthesis
               • Meta-analysis increases power and precision in estimating intervention effects.
               •    Results of individual studies are combined statistically to give a pooled
                    estimate of the ‘average’ intervention effect.
               •    Most meta-analysis methods are based on calculating a weighted average of
                    the effect estimates from each study.
               •    The methods used to combine results will depend on the type of outcome
                    assessed.
               •    Quantitative results should be expressed as point estimates together with
                    associated confidence intervals and exact p-values.
               •    Variation in results across studies should be investigated.
               •    Sensitivity analyses give an indication of the robustness of results to the type
                    of study included and the methods used.


          76



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 76                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:03
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.6        Report writing

               Report writing is an integral part of the systematic review process. This section
               deals with the primary scientific report of the review which often takes the form of
               a comprehensive report to the commissioning body. Many commissioners have their
               own guidance for production and submission of the report. Alternatively the primary
               report may take the form of a journal article, where space limitations may mean
               that important details of the review methods have to be omitted. These can be made
               available through the journal’s or the review team’s website. Whatever the format, it is
               important to take as much care over report preparation as over the review itself. The
               report should describe the review methods clearly and in sufficient detail that others
               could, if they wished, repeat them. There is evidence that the quality of reporting in
               reports of primary studies may affect the readers’ interpretation of the results, and the
               same is likely to be true of systematic reviews.201 It has also been argued that trials and
               reviews often provide incomplete or omit the crucial ‘how to’ details about interventions,
               limiting a clinicians’ ability to implement findings in practice.202-204
               The QUOROM statement9 has set standards for how reviews incorporating meta-analysis
               should be reported, and many journals require articles submitted to adhere to these
               standards. The QUOROM checklist and flow chart are useful resources for all authors of
               systematic review reports. However, recognising that the quality of reporting of many
               systematic reviews is disappointing,205 the QUOROM group have broadened their remit,
               been renamed PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-
               Analyses),206 and developed a flow chart and checklist for the reporting of systematic
               reviews with or without a meta-analysis.66, 67


               1.3.6.1 General considerations

               Resources for writers
               There are many resources for writers available in both printed and electronic form.
               These include guides to technical writing and publishing,207-209 style manuals210, 211 and
               guides to use of English.212 The EQUATOR Network is an initiative that seeks to improve
               the quality of scientific publications by promoting transparent and accurate reporting of
               health research.101 It provides an introduction to reporting guidelines, and information
               for authors of research reports, editors and peer reviewers as well as those developing
               reporting guidelines.


               Style and structure
               Commissioning bodies and journals usually have specific requirements regarding
               presentation and layout that should be followed when preparing a report or article.
               Some organisations offer detailed guidance while others are less specific. In the
               absence of guidance, a layered approach such as a one page summary of the research
               ‘actionable messages’, three-page executive summary and a 25-page report is
               advocated as the optimal way to present research evidence to health service managers
               and policy-makers.213 Box 1.11 presents a suggested outline structure for a typical
               report of a systematic review.




                                                                                                       77



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 77                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:03
          Systematic Reviews


          Many journals publish papers electronically ahead of print publication and electronic
          publishing often allows additional material, such as large tables, or search strategies
          to be made available through the journal’s website. There is no specific word limit
          for reports published in electronic format only, for example in the Cochrane Library,
          although Cochrane reviews ‘should be as succinct as possible’.75



               Box 1.11: Suggested structure of a systematic review report

               Title
               Contents list
               Abbreviations/glossary
               Executive summary or structured abstract
               Background
               Objectives
               Methods (data sources, study selection, data extraction, quality assessment, data
               synthesis)
               Results
               Conclusions
               Main text
               Background/introduction
               Review question(s)
               Review methods
                   Identification of studies
                   Study selection (inclusion and exclusion criteria; methods)
                   Data extraction
                   Quality assessment
                   Data synthesis
               Results of the review
                   Details of included and excluded studies
                   Findings of the review
                   Secondary analyses (sensitivity analyses etc.)
               Discussion (interpretation of the results)
               Conclusions
                   Recommendations/implications for practice/policy
                   Recommendations/implications for further research
               Acknowledgements or list of contributors and contributions
               Funding
               Conflicts of interest
               References
               Appendices




          78



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 78                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:04
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               Researchers should familiarise themselves with the conventions favoured by their
               commissioning body or ‘target’ journal. Many journals now prefer a clear and active
               style that is understandable to a general audience. Weaknesses in the use of grammar
               and spelling constitute obstacles to clear communication and should be eliminated as
               far as possible. The field of scientific and technical communication predominantly uses
               English as its common language, so those who are unsure of their ability in written
               English may find it helpful to have their report checked by an accomplished speaker/
               writer who is familiar with the subject matter before submission.
               Contents lists and headings are essential for guiding the reader through longer
               documents. Inclusion of an index may also be helpful. It is particularly important to
               adopt a consistent style (e.g. font, point size, font style) for different levels of main
               headings and sub-headings.


               Planning
               Time spent preparing a brief outline covering the main points to be included in the
               report can save time overall. The outline should focus on who the intended audience is
               and what they need to know. The review team will need to agree the outline and, if the
               report is to be written by multiple authors, allocate writers for each section. Dividing
               the work amongst a number of people reduces the burden on each individual but there
               is a risk of loss of consistency in style and terminology. In addition, completion of the
               report relies on all the team members working to the agreed schedule. It is essential for
               the lead author (corresponding author for journal articles) to monitor progress and take
               responsibility for accuracy and consistency.


               Authorship and contributorship
               The report of a systematic review will usually have a number of authors. According to
               the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE),214 authorship credit
               should be based on:

                  1. Substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or
                     analysis and interpretation of data
                  2. Drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and
                  3. Final approval of the version to be published
               All authors should meet all of these conditions. The review team should agree amongst
               themselves who will be authors and the order of authorship. Order of authorship is often
               taken to reflect an individual’s contribution to the report and methods are available
               for scoring contributions to determine authorship.215 Alternatively authors can simply
               be listed alphabetically. Contributions that do not meet the criteria for authorship (for
               example, data extraction or membership of an advisory group) should be included in the
               acknowledgements.
               Some journals, for example the BMJ, favour a system of contributorship.216 In addition
               to the standard list of authors, there is a list of all those who contributed to the paper
               with details of their contributions. One contributor (occasionally more than one) is
               listed as guarantor and accepts overall responsibility for the work. This system gives
               some credit to those who do not meet the ICMJE criteria for authorship and provides
               accountability for each stage of the review.

                                                                                                           79



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 79                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:04
          Systematic Reviews


          Peer review and feedback
          Most systematic reviews have an expert advisory group assembled at the beginning of
          the project and members of this group should be asked to review the draft report and
          comment on its scientific quality and completeness. The commissioning body may also
          organise its own independent peer review of the draft report before publication.
          Medical journals almost invariably seek external peer review of manuscripts submitted
          for publication. Draft manuscripts may also be posted on institutional websites or
          electronic preprint servers, allowing an opportunity for feedback from a wide range of
          interested parties, although for reports intended for journals it is important to ensure
          that such posting will not be considered as prior publication.
          In addition to scientific peer review, end users may also be asked to assess the
          relevance and potential usefulness of the review. They may recommend changes that
          would help in identifying the main messages for dissemination and important target
          audiences as well as possible formats and approaches.
          When feedback from external reviewers has been received, a final report can be
          prepared. A record of the comments and the way in which they were dealt with should
          be kept with the archive of the review.


          Conflict of interests
          The ICMJE state that a conflict of interests exists if ‘an author (or the author’s
          institution), reviewer, or editor has financial or personal relationships that
          inappropriately influence (bias) his or her actions’.214 Relationships that might constitute
          a conflict of interests are common and there is nothing wrong with having such
          relationships. However, it is important that they are declared so that readers are aware
          of the possibility that authors’ judgements may have been influenced by other factors.
          Review authors need to be explicit about any potential conflict of interests because such
          transparency is important in maintaining the readers’ confidence.


          1.3.6.2 Executive summary or abstract

          The executive summary (for full-length reports) or abstract (for journal articles) is the
          most important part of the report because potentially it is the only section that many
          readers will actually read (perhaps in conjunction with the discussion and conclusions).
          It should present the findings of the review clearly and concisely and allow readers to
          quickly judge the quality of the review and the generalisability of its findings. Providing
          a good balance between detail of the intervention and how the review was conducted,
          and the results and conclusions is always a challenge, and may require several
          iterations across the whole review team. The summary is usually the last section to
          be written so that full consideration can be given to all relevant aspects of the project.
          However the process of summary writing may help in the further development of the
          recommendations by forcing review teams to identify the one or two most important
          findings and the conclusions which flow from them. It should be remembered that
          revisions to the report or article following peer review may also need to be reflected
          in the summary. Assistance from outside parties and medical writers may be helpful in
          developing a good summary.



          80



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 80                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:04
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.6.3 Formulating the discussion

               The purpose of the discussion section of a report is to help readers to interpret the
               results of the review. This should be done by presenting an analysis of the findings and
               outlining the strengths and weaknesses of the review. The discussion should also place
               the findings in the context of the existing evidence base, particularly in relation to any
               existing relevant reviews. It has been suggested that more could and should be done in
               discussion sections to contextualise both the nature of the research and the findings to
               the existing evidence base.217 There should be a balance between objectively describing
               the results, and subjectively speculating on their meaning.218 It is important to present a
               clear and logical train of thought and reasoning, supported by the findings of the review
               and other existing knowledge. For example although statistically significant results and
               clear evidence of effectiveness may have been demonstrated, without an exploration of
               the impact on clinical practice it may not be clear whether they are clinically significant.
               Information on the interpretation of the analysis is given throughout Section 1.3.5 Data
               synthesis.
               Some commissioners and most journals have a set format or structure for the report.
               This may require the discussion section to incorporate the conclusions and any
               implications or recommendations, or may require these as separate sections. In the
               absence of a structured format for the discussion section, the framework given in Box
               1.12 may be helpful.



                  Box 1.12: Framework for the discussion section of a review

                  Statement of principal findings
                  Strengths and weaknesses of the review
                      Appraisal of methodological quality of the review
                      Relation to other reviews, in particular considering any differences
                  Meaning of the review’s findings
                     Strengths and weaknesses of the evidence included in the review
                     Direction and magnitude of effects observed in the included studies
                     Applicability of the findings of the review
                  Implications
                     Practical implications for clinicians and policy-makers
                     Unanswered questions and implications for further research
                  Based on Docherty and Smith (1999)219



               1.3.6.4 Conclusions, implications, recommendations

               Faced with the need to make decisions and limited time to read the whole report, many
               readers may go directly to the conclusions. Therefore, whether incorporated in the
               discussion section or presented separately, it is essential that the conclusions be clearly


                                                                                                        81



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 81                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:04
          Systematic Reviews


          worded and based solely on the evidence reviewed. The conclusions should summarise
          the evidence and draw out the implications for health care, and preferably be worded to
          show how they have been derived from the evidence.
          Conclusions are generally a standard requirement, however, many commissioners and
          journals have their own conventions about implications and recommendations. For
          example, the NIHR HTA programme require the conclusions section of reports to include
          the implications for health care and specify recommendations for future research,
          in order of priority. They specifically exclude making recommendations for policy or
          clinical practice.220 Authors’ conclusions from Cochrane reviews are presented as the
          implications for practice and research; recommendations are not made.130
          In the absence of guidance from the commissioner, it is generally advisable to avoid
          making recommendations about policy or practice, unless this is the focus of the review.
          The nature of the review question should therefore guide whether it is appropriate to
          include recommendations or focus on the implications for policy, practice and/or further
          research, and how these are best presented. Whether recommendations are made or
          implications drawn, it is important to ensure that these are supported by the evidence
          and to avoid making any statements that are outside the defined scope of the review.
          The way in which a recommendation or implication is phrased can considerably influence
          the way in which it is interpreted and implemented (or ignored). Hence, it is important
          to make all statements as precise as possible.221-223
          Recommendations for practice are usually only made in guidelines, and are formulated
          from a variety of sources of information in addition to review findings. There are a
          number of schemes available for grading practice recommendations according to the
          strength of the evidence that supports them.224-230 Systematic review reports should aim
          to provide the information required to implement any of these systems if used. It should
          be noted that not all the schemes take into account the generalisability of the findings
          of the review to routine clinical practice. This should always be a consideration when
          drawing up the implications or if making recommendations.
          A clear statement of the implications or recommendations for future research should
          be made; vague statements along the lines of ‘more research is needed’ are not
          helpful and should be avoided. Specific gaps in the evidence should be highlighted to
          identify the research questions that need answering. Where methodological issues
          have been identified in existing studies, suggestions for future approaches may be
          made. Where possible, research recommendations should be listed in order of priority,
          and an indication of how rapidly the knowledge base in the area is developing should
          be included. This can assist in planning an update of the review and help guide
          commissioners when allocating funding.
          The DUETs initiative (Database of Uncertainties about the Effects of Treatments;
          (www.duets.nhs.uk), recommends the presentation of research recommendations in
          a structured format represented by the acronym EPICOT (Evidence, Population(s),
          Intervention(s), Comparison(s), Outcome(s), Time stamp). Timeliness (duration of
          intervention/follow-up), disease burden and suggested study design are considered as
          optional additional elements of a structured research recommendation. Further details
          and an example of how to formulate research recommendations using the EPICOT
          format can be found in an article published by the DUETS Working Group.231 It is worth



          82



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 82                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:05
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               noting that there is some debate about the applicability of the EPICOT format for some
               reviews, particularly those of complex interventions.232



                  Summary: Report writing

                  •     Report writing is an integral part of the systematic review process.
                  •     Reviews may be published as a report for the commissioner, as a journal
                        article or both. Researchers should be aware of the requirements of
                        commissioning bodies and journals and adhere to them.
                  •     Readability is a key aspect of reporting; a review’s findings will not be acted
                        on if they are not clearly presented and understood.
                  •     The executive summary (for full-length reports) or abstract (for journal
                        articles) is the most important part of the report, because it is potentially the
                        only section that many readers will actually read (perhaps in conjunction with
                        the discussion and conclusions).
                  •     A structured framework can be helpful for preparing the discussion section of
                        the report.
                  •     Implications for practice or policy and recommendations for further research
                        should be based solely on the evidence contained in the review.
                  •     The findings from systematic reviews are frequently used to inform guideline
                        development. Guideline recommendations are often formulated using a
                        grading scheme. Systematic review reports should therefore aim to provide
                        the information required for such grading schemes.
                  •     A structured format for the presentation of research recommendations has
                        been developed as a result of the DUETS initiative.




                                                                                                            83



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 83                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:05
          Systematic Reviews


          1.3.7         Archiving the review

          There are published guidelines relating to the retention of primary research data.233
          While these do not currently relate to systematic reviews, they do represent appropriate
          good practice. Where policies on retention, storage and protection are not specified
          by a commissioner, researchers might consider including this information in research
          proposals so that it is clear from the outset what will be kept and for how long.
          Decisions need to be made about which documents are vital to keep and which can
          be safely disposed of. Extracted data and quality assessment information should
          be preserved. In addition, records of decisions made during protocol development,
          inclusion screening and data extraction, are unique and should be kept. Minutes of
          meetings, correspondence as well as peer review comments and responses might also
          be held for a specific period of time as further records of the decision-making process.
          It is always advisable to permanently store a copy of the final report, particularly if the
          only other copy in existence is the one submitted to the commissioners.
          Some information used in the review such as conference abstracts, additional
          information from authors, and unpublished material may be particularly difficult to
          obtain at a later stage so hard copies should be archived. This also applies to material
          retrieved from the Internet, which should be printed for the archive, as links to web
          pages are not permanent.
          Whilst it may be easy and space saving to archive material electronically, paper records
          are often preferable as the equipment used to access documents stored in electronic
          formats can become obsolete after a relatively short period of time.




          84



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 84                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:05
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               1.3.8        Disseminating the findings of systematic reviews

               In recent years, there has been substantial investment in the commissioning
               of systematic reviews assessing the effects of a range of different health care
               interventions. To improve the quality of health care, and ultimately health outcomes,
               the review findings need to be effectively communicated to practitioners and policy-
               makers. The transfer of knowledge obtained through research into practice has long
               been acknowledged as a complex process234-238 that is highly dependent on context and
               the interaction of a multitude of interconnected factors operating at the level of the
               individual, group, organisation and wider health system.
               A number of conceptual frameworks have attempted to represent the complexity of
               knowledge translation processes.234, 236, 238-244 One recent framework,244 whilst recognising
               the importance of non-linear diffusion, highlights a pivotal role for the direct or planned
               dissemination of contextualised, actionable messages derived from systematic reviews
               to inform practice and policy decision-making processes.
               CRD’s experience of direct dissemination has led to the development of a framework,
               which is supported by both theoretical and empirical research into the ways by
               which different audiences become aware of, receive, access, read and use research
               findings (Figure 1.4). This involves targeting the right people with a clear and relevant
               message, communicating via appropriate and often multiple channels (any medium
               used to convey a message to an audience or audiences), whilst taking account of the
               environment in which the message will be received.
               Detailed information about this framework is provided here; case studies showing the
               framework in use can be found on the CRD website (www.york.ac.uk/inst/crd). The
               framework provides a basic structure that enables researchers to consider carefully the
               appropriateness of their plans for dissemination, simple or complex, and could be used
               by anyone seeking to promote the findings of a review.


               1.3.8.1 What is dissemination?

               As interest in enhancing the impact of health research has increased, so too has the
               terminology used to describe the approaches employed.241, 245 Terms like dissemination,
               diffusion, implementation, knowledge transfer, knowledge mobilisation, linkage and
               exchange and research into practice are all being used to describe overlapping and
               interrelated concepts and practices. Given this, it is helpful to explain how the term
               dissemination is used here.
               Dissemination is a planned and active process that seeks to ensure that those who
               need to know about a piece of research get to know about it and can make sense of
               the findings. As such it involves more than making research accessible through the
               traditional mediums of academic journals and conference presentations. It requires
               forethought about the groups who need to know the answer to the question a review is
               addressing, the best way of getting the message directly to that audience, and doing so
               by design rather than chance. Hence an active rather than passive process.
               The term dissemination is often used interchangeably with implementation but it is more
               appropriate to see the terms as complementary. Dissemination and implementation are


                                                                                                         85



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 85                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:05
          Systematic Reviews


          part of a continuum.239, 246, 247 At one end are activities that focus on making research
          accessible, raising awareness of new findings and encouraging consideration of practice
          alternatives and policy options. At the other end of the continuum are activities that
          seek to increase the adoption of research findings into practice and policy and that
          facilitate, reinforce and maintain changes in practice.
          CRD’s primary focus is very much at the awareness raising end of the continuum,
          though there is no clear cut off point, and there is evidence for the positive effects
          of planned dissemination on the implementation of research evidence in practice.237
          For example, there is some evidence that the centre’s Effective Health Care and
          Effectiveness Matters series of bulletins had a positive impact on the quality of health
          care delivered. Empirical studies have suggested that the dissemination of these
          bulletins contributed to reductions in the prophylactic extraction of wisdom teeth,248, 249
          in the use of surgical interventions for glue ear,250, 251 and impacted on the prescribing of
          selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors for depression.252, 253
          Dissemination should not be viewed as an adjunct to the review process or as
          something to be considered at the end when thoughts turn to publication. Nor should
          it be seen as separate from the wider social context in which the review findings
          are expected to be used. It is an integral part of the review process and should be
          considered from an early stage to allow adequate time for planning and development,
          for the allocation of responsibilities and to ensure that the proposed activities are
          properly resourced. The CRD framework (Figure 1.4) offers a sequential approach to
          considering, developing and implementing appropriate dissemination strategies for
          individual systematic reviews. The framework has been utilised for a wide range of
          topics and audiences for over a decade.


          1.3.8.2 CRD’s approach to dissemination

          Traditionally, research on dissemination and implementation has tended to focus on
          the use of research knowledge, rather than on the effects of dissemination activities.
          However, a number of conceptual frameworks have been put forward which consistently
          suggest that the effectiveness of dissemination activities is determined by careful
          consideration of a number of key attributes.234, 237, 254-258 These are:

               •    The characteristics of the research message
               •    The setting in which the message is received
               •    The characteristics of the target audience(s)
               •    The source of the research message
               •    The presentation of the research message
               •    The communication channel(s) used
          Assuming that all research has an audience (but not that all research should be
          widely disseminated), whether the message provides an unequivocal answer or simply
          highlights the need for further research, our approach is structured around six key
          attributes which are interlinked and difficult to consider in isolation (see Figure 1.4). The
          key messages from the review are the starting point for determining the audience to be
          targeted.


          86



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 86                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:06
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions



                                                                 Review Topic



                                                                   Message

                                                                                                                       PLAN

                                                                   Audience




                                 Audience Preference                                      Audience Preference
                External
                factors:

                Source                                       Tailoring of messages

                                                                                                                       DEVELOP
                Setting/                               Communication channels selection
                Context                                                                                         Time


                Resources


                                                                 Implement                                             IMPLEMENT
                                                            dissemination strategy



                                                             Evaluation/feedback


               Figure 1.4: CRD Dissemination framework


               Characteristics of the research message and the setting in which it will be
               received
               The literature on communication259 and diffusion239 (i.e. how, why, and at what rate
               ideas/innovations spread through social systems) highlights three types of messages
               that can impact on the knowledge and attitudes of target audiences: awareness,
               instruction (‘how to’) and persuasion (information that reduces uncertainty about
               expected consequences). Message characteristics to consider include the nature of the
               intervention, the strength of the evidence, its transferability, the degree of uncertainty
               and whether the findings confirm or reject existing predispositions or practices.
               Messages also have to be perceived as relevant and meaningful by the audiences being
               targeted. Knowledge about both the wider setting (economic, social, organisational
               and political environments) within which a target audience resides and the context
               (hostile or receptive) in which a message is to be received, should be used to inform the
               development of appropriate dissemination strategies.




                                                                                                                                 87



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 87                                                                                                   8/1/09 09:29:06
          Systematic Reviews


          Characteristics of the target audience(s)
          Deciding who to target usually involves an element of prioritisation (segmentation) as
          resource constraints can make it difficult to reach all possible audiences. In prioritising,
          relevance (who needs to know about this research) and receptivity (who is most likely
          to be influenced and to influence others) need to be considered. The question of how
          best to reach target audiences can in part be answered by drawing upon the theoretical
          literature on research utilisation (the ways by which different audiences become aware
          of, access, read and make use of research findings).260, 261 This literature helps to
          inform the selection of the most appropriate or feasible communication channels for
          the audiences being targeted. Channels frequently used to promote review findings
          include paper and electronic publishing, email alerting services, direct and relationship
          marketing, mass media campaigns as well as engaging directly with target audiences.


          Presentation of the research message and communication channel(s) used
          The literature on diffusion239 makes a distinction between mass media channels and
          interpersonal (face to face) channels. The former are generally regarded as being
          more important for dissemination purposes whereas interpersonal channels are more
          important for activity at the implementation end of the continuum. CRDs experience is
          that a combination of communication channels is helpful in increasing the likelihood that
          target audiences will encounter the review messages being promoted.
          The selection of communication channels may also inform the presentation (tailoring)
          of the research message itself. When tailoring messages, consideration is given to the
          target audience, language used, the format, structure and style of presentation, the
          types of appeal and the amount of repetition. It is generally appropriate to try to write
          for an educated but non-research specialist health professional or decision-maker. Lay
          terms are used rather than technical language and statistics presented in as simple
          a form as possible. The aim is to make information accessible to a broad range of
          readers and anyone who would like more details can access the full report. It has been
          advocated that a layered structure such as the ‘1:3:25’ format (i.e. one page of the
          research ’bottom lines’ or ‘actionable messages’, three-page executive summary and
          a 25-page report) is the optimal way to present research evidence to health service
          managers and policy-makers.213 This type of structuring involving a front page of key
          messages has become common place and reflects documented audience preferences for
          the ‘bottom line’ up front. There is some evidence that this order of presentation can
          increase overall understanding of the research findings but may also in some instances
          alienate those who are less receptive to or in disagreement with the conclusions
          presented.262, 263


          Source of the research message
          How the source (i.e. the research team or organisation) is perceived by a target
          audience in terms of its credibility (trustworthiness), attractiveness (likemindedness)
          or power, is an important consideration. For example, where the evidence base is
          contested (clinically or politically), and/or where audiences are less familiar with
          systematic review methods generally, promoting source credibility can be crucial from
          the outset. An approach CRD has used when encountering these issues, has been to




          88



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 88                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:08
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               create dedicated, publicly accessible websites that provide information about all aspects
               of the review. These websites enable external scrutiny of the review process, and
               include feedback facilities for interested parties to comment, ask questions or submit
               evidence for consideration. Our experience suggests it is important to make it clear
               that contributions of existing research evidence, including published/grey literature, are
               welcome, but that personal experience and anecdote, whilst important, does not usually
               form part of a systematic review. An example of a review dedicated website can be
               found at www.york.ac.uk/inst/crd/fluorid.htm. Considerable effort is required to set up,
               monitor and maintain a dedicated website and our experience of the benefit is varied.
               It is important therefore to consider the likely benefit to the review and the target
               audience before setting up a site.


               Dissemination strategies
               It has been proposed that there are four dissemination models that can be employed to
               link ‘research to action’.262, 263 These are:

                  •     Push strategies which are largely associated with supply (researcher) led
                        distribution of new research findings
                  •     Pull strategies which facilitate demand (audience) led access to research
                  •     Linkage and exchange264 efforts which involve two way communications and
                        partnerships between producers and users of research
                  •     Integrated approaches that incorporate aspects of all three
               In reality, push, pull and exchange strategies are not mutually exclusive; facilitating
               user pull often requires the application of a promotional push strategy (e.g. utilising
               email alerting services or RSS feeds) to inform and remind target audiences about
               review findings that are forthcoming or have been made available online for example.
               CRD favours the integrated approach that incorporates elements of all three strategies,
               but where the emphasis shifts according to the topic and the audiences to be targeted.


               Evaluation of impact
               There is an increasing requirement, particularly from funders, for the impact of research
               to be predicted in advance of the work and then assessed after completion.265, 266 There
               are a number of specialised research impact assessment approaches, but these usually
               require specialist skills and additional resources.267, 268 Taking the issue of whether
               academic quality or practical use and impact of research is most important, a pragmatic
               framework has been proposed which addresses both points.269 The framework is based
               on the assessment criteria used in UK universities. It provides a structure for a narrative
               description of the impact of the findings from why the research question was first posed
               and funded, to where the results were sent, discussed, and put into policy and/or
               practice.




                                                                                                       89



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 89                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:08
          Systematic Reviews




               Summary: Dissemination

               •    Simply making research available does not ensure that those that need to
                    know about it get to know about it or can make sense of the findings.
               •    Dissemination is a planned and active process that can aid the transfer of
                    research into practice.
               •    Dissemination should not be viewed as an adjunct but rather as an integral
                    part of the review process and should be considered from the outset.
               •    CRD employs a topic-driven approach that involves targeting the right people
                    with understandable and relevant messages, communicating via appropriate
                    (often multiple) channels, whilst taking account of the environment in which
                    the message will be received.
               •    The CRD framework provides a basic structure for developing appropriate
                    dissemination strategies and could be used by anyone seeking to promote the
                    findings of a review.




          90



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 90                                                                     8/1/09 09:29:08
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               REFERENCES

               1. Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. DARE (Database of Abstracts of Reviews of
               Effects) [internet]. York: Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York;
               [cited 2008 9 Sep]. Available from: www.crd.york.ac.uk/crdweb/
               2. The Cochrane Library, Issue 2, 2008 [internet]. Chichester: Wiley; [cited 2008 Apr
               17]. Available from: www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/mrwhome/106568753/HOME
               3. The Campbell Collaboration [internet]. The Campbell Collaboration; c2008. [cited
               2008 Apr 17]. Available from: www.campbellcollaboration.org/frontend.aspx
               4. EPPI-Centre [internet]. London: The Evidence for Policy and Practice Information,
               Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London; c2008. [cited
               2008 Apr 17]. Available from: http://eppi.ioe.ac.uk/cms/
               5. National Guidelines Clearinghouse [internet]. Agency for Healthcare Research and
               Quality (AHRQ), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; c2008. [cited 2008
               Apr 17]. Available from: http://guidelines.gov/
               6. Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) [internet]. Edinburgh: Scottish
               Intercollegiate Guidelines Network; c2008. [cited 2008 Apr 17]. Available from:
               www.sign.ac.uk/index.html
               7. Greenhalgh T. How to read a paper: papers that summarise other papers (systematic
               reviews and meta-analyses). BMJ 1997;315:672-5.
               8. Oxman AD, Guyatt GH. Guidelines for reading literature reviews. CMAJ
               1988;138:697-703.
               9. Moher D, Cook DJ, Eastwood S, Olkin I, Rennie D, Stroup DF. Improving the quality
               of reports of meta-analyses of randomised controlled trials: the QUOROM statement.
               Lancet 1999;354:1896-900.
               10. Oxman AD, Cook DJ, Guyatt GH. User’s guide to the medical literature. VI. How to
               use an overview. JAMA 1994;272:1367-71.
               11. Moher D, Tsertsvadze A, Tricco A, Eccles M, Grimshaw J, Sampson M, et al. When
               and how to update systematic reviews. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2008,
               Issue 1. Art. No.: MR000023. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.MR000023.pub3.
               12. Lumley J, Oliver SS, Chamberlain C, Oakley L. Interventions for promoting smoking
               cessation during pregnancy. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2004, Issue 4.
               Art. No.: CD001055. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001055.pub2.
               13. NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. A systematic review of public water
               fluoridation. CRD Report 18. York: University of York; 2000.
               14. McDaid C, Hartley S, Bagnall AM, Ritchie G, Light K, Riemsma R. Systematic review
               of effectiveness of different treatments for childhood retinoblastoma. Health Technol
               Assess 2005;9:1-145.
               15. Gøtzsche PC, Liberati A, Torri V, Rossetti L. Beware of surrogate outcome measures.
               Int J Technol Assess Health Care 1996;12:238-46.



                                                                                                       91



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 91                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:09
          Systematic Reviews


          16. Sackett DL, Wennberg JE. Choosing the best research design for each question. BMJ
          1997;315:1636.
          17. Horwitz RI. Large-scale randomized evidence: large, simple trials and overviews
          of trials: discussion. A clinician’s perspective on meta-analyses. J Clin Epidemiol
          1995;48:41-4.
          18. Eysenck HJ. Meta-analysis and its problems. BMJ 1994;309:789-92.
          19. Egger M, Zellweger-Zähner T, Schneider M, Junker C, Lengeler C, Antes G.
          Language bias in randomised controlled trials published in English and German. Lancet
          1997;350:326-9.
          20. Vickers A, Goyal N, Harland R, Rees R. Do certain countries produce only positive
          results? A systematic review of controlled trials. Control Clin Trials 1998;19:159-66.
          21. Grégoire G, Derderian F, Le Lorier J. Selecting the language of the publications
          included in a meta-analysis: is there a Tower of Babel bias? J Clin Epidemiol
          1995;48:159-63.
          22. Moher D, Pham B, Klassen TP, Schulz KF, Berlin JA, Jadad AR, et al. What
          contributions do languages other than English make on the results of meta-analyses? J
          Clin Epidemiol 2000;53:964-72.
          23. Moher D, Pham B, Lawson ML, Klassen TP. The inclusion of reports of randomised
          trials published in languages other than English in systematic reviews. Health Technol
          Assess 2003;7:1-90.
          24. Song F, Eastwood AJ, Gilbody S, Duley L, Sutton AJ. Publication and related biases.
          Health Technol Assess 2000;4:1-115.
          25. Dundar Y, Dodd S, Dickson R, Walley T, Haycox A, Williamson PR. Comparison of
          conference abstracts and presentations with full-text articles in the health technology
          assessments of rapidly evolving technologies. Health Technol Assess 2006;10:1-145.
          26. Chokkalingam A, Scherer R, Dickersin K. Concordance of data between conference
          abstracts and full reports [abstract]. In: 6th Cochrane Colloquium; 1998 Oct 22-26;
          Baltimore, MD, USA.
          27. Tooher R, Middleton P, Griffin T, Pham C, Hopewell S. How different are conference
          abstracts of surgical RCTs from the subsequent full publication? [abstract]. In: 12th
          Cochrane Colloquium; 2004 Oct 2-6; Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
          28. Dundar Y, Dodd S, Williamson P, Dickson R, Walley T. Case study of the comparison
          of data from conference abstracts and full-text articles in health technology assessment
          of rapidly evolving technologies: does it make a difference? Int J Technol Assess Health
          Care 2006;22:288-94.
          29. Song FJ, Fry-Smith A, Davenport C, Bayliss S, Adi Y, Wilson JS, et al. Identification
          and assessment of ongoing trials in health technology assessment reviews. Health
          Technol Assess 2004;8:1-87.
          30. Silagy CA, Middleton P, Hopewell S. Publishing protocols of systematic reviews:
          comparing what was done to what was planned. JAMA 2002;287:2831-4.



          92



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 92                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:09
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               31. Thomson Scientific. BIOSIS [database]. Thomson Scientific; 2006. [cited 2006 31
               Aug]. Available from: www.biosis.org/
               32. Thomson Scientific. Index to Scientific & Technical Proceedings [database].
               Thomson Scientific; 2006. [cited 2006 31 Aug]. Available from: http://scientific.
               thomson.com/products/istp/
               33. British Library. ZETOC [internet]. Mimas, University of Manchester; 2006. [cited
               2006 31 Aug]. Available from: http://zetoc.mimas.ac.uk/
               34. CSA. Conference Papers Index [database]. Bethesda, MD: CSA; 2006. [cited 2006
               31 Aug]. Available from: www.csa.com/factsheets/cpi-set-c.php
               35. Chokkalingam A, Scherer R, Dickersin K. Agreement of data in abstracts compared
               to full publications. Control Clin Trials 1998;19:61S-62S.
               36. Hopewell S, Eisinga A, Clarke M. Better reporting of randomized trials in biomedical
               journal and conference abstracts. Journal of Information Science 2008;34:162-73.
               37. Loria A, Arroyo P. Language and country preponderance trends in MEDLINE and its
               causes. J Med Libr Assoc 2005;93:381-5.
               38. Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) [internet]. Chichester:
               John Wiley & Sons Ltd; [cited 2008 05 Aug]. Available from: www.mrw.interscience.
               wiley.com/cochrane/cochrane_clcentral_articles_fs.html
               39. Hopewell S, Clarke M, Lefebvre C, Scherer R. Handsearching versus electronic
               searching to identify reports of randomized trials. Cochrane Database of Systematic
               Reviews 2007, Issue 2. Art. No.: MR000001. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.MR000001.pub2.
               40. Ogilvie D, Hamilton V, Egan M, Petticrew M. Systematic reviews of health effects
               of social interventions: 1. Finding the evidence: how far should you go? J Epidemiol
               Community Health 2005;59:804-8.
               41. Bambra C, Whitehead M, Hamilton V. Does ‘welfare-to-work’ work? A systematic
               review of the effectiveness of the UK’s welfare-to-work programmes for people with a
               disability or chronic illness. Soc Sci Med 2005;60:1905-18.
               42. Lefebvre C, Manheimer E, Glanville J. Chapter 6: Searching for studies. In: Higgins
               JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions.
               Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available
               from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
               43. National Centre for Text Mining (NaCTeM). ASSERT project webpage [internet].
               2008. [cited 21 Aug 2008]. Available from: www.nactem.ac.uk/assert/
               44. Ananiadou S, Procter R, Rea B, Sasaki Y, Thomas J. Supporting systematic reviews
               using text mining. In: 3rd International Conference on e-Social Science; Oct 7-9; Ann
               Arbor, MI. 2007.
               45. National Centre for Text Mining. Text mining briefing paper. Bristol: Joint
               Information Systems Committee (JISC); 2006.
               46. Ananiadou S. The National Centre for Text Mining: a vision for the future. Ariadne
               2007;53.


                                                                                                        93



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 93                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:09
          Systematic Reviews


          47. Okazaki N, Ananiadou S. Building an abbreviation dictionary using a term
          recognition approach. Bioinformatics 2006;22:3089-95.
          48. KLEIO [internet]. National Centre for Text Mining (NaCTeM), School of Computer
          Science, The University of Manchester; [cited 2008 10 Sep]. Available from:
          www.nactem.ac.uk/software/kleio/index.jsp
          49. FACTA [internet]. National Centre for Text Mining (NaCTeM), School of Computer
          Science, The University of Manchester; [cited 2008 8 Sep]. Available from: http://text0.
          mib.man.ac.uk/software/facta/
          50. Thomas J, Brunton J. EPPI-Reviewer 3.0: analysis and management of data
          for research synthesis. EPPI-Centre Software. London: EPPI-Centre, Social Science
          Research Unit, Institute of Education; 2006.
          51. Mead TL, Richards DT. Librarian participation in meta-analysis projects. Bull Med Libr
          Assoc 1995;83:461-64.
          52. Slavin RE. Best evidence synthesis: an intelligent alternative to meta-analysis. J Clin
          Epidemiol 1995;48:9-18.
          53. Oxman AD, Stachenko SJ. Meta-analysis in primary care: theory and practice. In:
          Tudiver F, Bass MJ, Dunn EV, Norton PG, editors. Assessing interventions: traditional and
          innovative research methods for primary care. Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications;
          1992. p. 191-207.
          54. Goodman C. Step 2: specify inclusion criteria for studies. In: Literature searching
          and evidence interpretation for accessing health care practices. Stockholm: Swedish
          Council on Technology Assessment in Health Care; 1993.
          55. Oxman AD, Guyatt GH. The science of reviewing research. Ann N Y Acad Sci
          1993;703:125-33.
          56. Cooper H, Ribble RG. Influences on the outcome of literature searches for
          integrative research reviews. Knowledge 1989;10:179-201.
          57. Edwards P, Clarke M, DiGuiseppi C, Pratap S, Roberts I, Wentz R. Identification of
          randomized controlled trials in systematic reviews: accuracy and reliability of screening
          records. Stat Med 2002;21:1635-40.
          58. Altman DG. Measuring agreement. In: Altman DG, editor. Practical statistics for
          medical research. London: Chapman and Hall; 1991.
          59. McDonagh MS, Whiting PF, Wilson PM, Sutton AJ, Chestnutt I, Cooper J, et al.
          Systematic review of water fluoridation. BMJ 2000;321:855-59.
          60. Chalmers TC, Levin H, Sacks HS, Reitman D, Berrier J, Nagalingam R. Meta-analysis
          of clinical trials as a scientific discipline. I: control of bias and comparison with large
          co-operative trials. Stat Med 1987;6:315-25.
          61. Berlin JA, University of Pennsylvania Meta-analysis Blinding Study Group. Does
          blinding of readers affect the results of meta-analyses? Lancet 1997;350:185-86.




          94



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 94                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:09
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               62. Haines T, Kennedy C, Gross A, Goldsmith C, Hondras M, Roving I, et al. Influence of
               ‘blinding’ on selection of articles for relevance [abstract]. In: 7th Cochrane Colloquium:
               1999 Oct 5-9; Rome, Italy.
               63. von Elm E, Poglia G, Walder B, Tramer MR. Different patterns of duplicate
               publication: an analysis of articles used in systematic reviews. JAMA 2004;291:974-80.
               64. von Elm E, Tramer MR, Jüni P, Egger M. Does duplicate publication of trials
               introduce bias in systematic reviews? A systematic review [abstract]. In: 11th Cochrane
               Colloquium: 2003 Oct 26-31; Barcelona, Spain.
               65. Tramer MR, Reynolds DJ, Moore RA, McQuay HJ. Impact of covert duplicate
               publication on meta-analysis: a case study. BMJ 1997;315:635-40.
               66. Moher D, Liberati A, Tetzlaff J, Altman DG, and the PRISMA Group. Preferred
               Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses: the PRISMA Statement
               [forthcoming].
               67. Liberati A, Altman DG, Tetzlaff J, Mulrow C, Gøtzsche P, Ioannidis JPA, et al. The
               PRISMA Statement for reporting systematic reviews and meta-analyses of studies that
               evaluate health care interventions: explanation and elaboration [forthcoming].
               68. Higgins JPT, Deeks JJ, (editors). Chapter 7: Selecting studies and collecting data.
               In: Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of
               interventions. Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration;
               2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
               69. Buscemi N, Hartling L, Vandermeer B, Tjosvold L, Klassen TP. Single data extraction
               generated more errors than double data extraction in systematic reviews. J Clin
               Epidemiol 2006;59:697-703.
               70. Jadad AR, Moore RA, Carroll D, Jenkinson C, Reynolds DJM, Gavaghan DJ, et al.
               Assessing the quality of reports of randomized clinical trials: is blinding necessary?
               Control Clin Trials 1996;17:1-12.
               71. Sacks HS, Berrier J, Reitman D, Acona-Berk VA, Chalmers TC. Meta-analysis of
               randomized controlled trials. N Engl J Med 1987;316:450-5.
               72. Stewart LA, Tierney JF, Clarke M. Chapter 19: Reviews of individual patient data.
               In: Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of
               interventions. Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration;
               2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
               73. Egger M, Davey Smith G, Altman DG. Systematic reviews in health care: meta
               analysis in context. 2nd ed. London: BMJ Books; 2001.
               74. Petticrew M, Roberts H. Systematic reviews in the social sciences: a practical guide.
               Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing; 2006.
               75. Higgins JPT, Green S, (editors). Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of
               interventions. Version 5.0.0 [updated February 2008]: The Cochrane Collaboration;
               2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org




                                                                                                         95



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 95                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:10
          Systematic Reviews


          76. Verhagen AP, de Vet HC, de Bie RA, Kessels AG, Boers M, Bouter LM, et al. The
          Delphi list: a criteria list for quality assessment of randomized clinical trials for
          conducting systematic reviews developed by Delphi consensus. J Clin Epidemiol
          1998;51:1235-41.
          77. Devereaux PJ, Manns BJ, Ghali WA, Quan H, Lacchetti C, Montori VM, et al.
          Physician interpretations and textbook definitions of blinding terminology in randomized
          controlled trials. JAMA 2001;285:2000-3.
          78. Montori VM, Bhandari M, Devereaux PJ, Manns BJ, Ghali WA, Guyatt GH. In the
          dark: the reporting of blinding status in randomized controlled trials. J Clin Epidemiol
          2002;55:787-90.
          79. Wright CC, Sim J. Intention-to-treat approach to data from randomized controlled
          trials: a sensitivity analysis. J Clin Epidemiol 2003;56:833-42.
          80. Tierney JF, Stewart LA. Investigating patient exclusion bias in meta-analysis. Int J
          Epidemiol 2005;34:79-87.
          81. Hollis S, Campbell F. What is meant by intention to treat analysis? Survey of
          published randomised controlled trials. BMJ 1999;319:670-4.
          82. Higgins JPT, Altman DG, on behalf of the Cochrane Statistical Methods Group
          and the Cochrane Bias Methods Group. Chapter 8: Assessing risk of bias in included
          studies. In: Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews
          of interventions. Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration;
          2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
          83. Senn S. Cross-over trials in clinical research. 2nd ed. Chichester: John Wiley &
          Sons; 2002.
          84. Donner A, Klar N. Design and analysis of cluster randomization. London: Arnold;
          2000.
          85. Puffer S, Torgerson DJ, Watson J. Evidence for risk of bias in cluster randomised
          trials: review of recent trials published in three general medical journals. BMJ
          2003;327:785-9.
          86. Hahn S, Puffer S, Torgerson DJ, Watson J. Methodological bias in cluster randomised
          trials. BMC Med Res Methodol 2005;5:10.
          87. Campbell MK, Elbourne DR, Altman DG, Consort group. CONSORT statement:
          extension to cluster randomised trials. BMJ 2004;328:702-8.
          88. Klar N, Donner A. Current and future challenges in the design and analysis of cluster
          randomization trials. Stat Med 2001;20:3729-40.
          89. Deeks JJ, Dinnes J, D’Amico R, Sowden AJ, Sakarovitch C, Song F, et al. Evaluating
          non-randomised intervention studies. Health Technol Assess 2003;7:1-173.
          90. Altman DG, Bland JM. Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. BMJ
          1995;311:485.
          91. Schulz KF, Grimes DA. Sample size calculations in randomised trials: mandatory and
          mystical. Lancet 2005;365:1348-53.


          96



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 96                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:10
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               92. Devereaux PJ, Manns BJ, Ghali WA, Quan H, Guyatt GH. The reporting of
               methodological factors in randomized controlled trials and the association with a
               journal policy to promote adherence to the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials
               (CONSORT) checklist. Control Clin Trials 2002;23:380-8.
               93. Jüni P, Altman DG, Egger M. Assessing the quality of randomised controlled trials.
               In: Egger M, Davey Smith G, Altman DG, editors. Systematic reviews in health care:
               meta-analysis in context. 2nd ed. London: BMJ Books; 2001. p. 87-108.
               94. Pildal J, Chan AW, Hrobjartsson A, Forfang E, Altman DG, Gøtzsche PC. Comparison
               of descriptions of allocation concealment in trial protocols and the published reports:
               cohort study. BMJ 2005;330:1049.
               95. Hill CL, LaValley MP, Felson DT. Discrepancy between published report and actual
               conduct of randomized clinical trials. J Clin Epidemiol 2002;55:783-6.
               96. Devereaux PJ, Choi PT, El-Dika S, Bhandari M, Montori VM, Schunemann HJ, et al.
               An observational study found that authors of randomized controlled trials frequently use
               concealment of randomization and blinding, despite the failure to report these methods.
               J Clin Epidemiol 2004;57:1232-6.
               97. Soares HP, Daniels S, Kumar A, Clarke M, Scott C, Swann S, et al. Bad reporting
               does not mean bad methods for randomised trials: observational study of randomised
               controlled trials performed by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. BMJ
               2004;328:22-4.
               98. Altman DG, Schulz KF, Moher D, Egger M, Davidoff F, Elbourne D, et al. The revised
               CONSORT statement for reporting randomized trials: explanation and elaboration. Ann
               Intern Med 2001;134:663-94.
               99. Des Jarlais DC, Lyles C, Crepaz N, TREND Group. Improving the reporting quality
               of nonrandomized evaluations of behavioral and public health interventions: the TREND
               statement. Am J Public Health 2004;94:361-6.
               100. von Elm E, Altman DG, Egger M, Pocock SJ, Gøtzsche PC, Vandenbroucke JP, et al.
               The Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE)
               statement: guidelines for reporting observational studies. Lancet 2007;370:1453-7.
               101. EQUATOR Network [internet] Enhancing the Quality and Transparency of Health
               Research. Centre for Statistics in Medicine, Oxford; [cited 2008 14 Aug]. Available from:
               www.equator-network.org/
               102. Herbert RD, Bø K. Analysis of quality of interventions in systematic reviews. BMJ
               2005;331:507-9.
               103. Boutron I, Tubach F, Giraudeau B, Ravaud P. Methodological differences in clinical
               trials evaluating nonpharmacological and pharmacological treatments of hip and knee
               osteoarthritis. JAMA 2003;290:1062-70.
               104. Medical Research Council. A framework for development and evaluation of RCTs for
               complex interventions to improve health. London: Medical Research Council; 2000.
               105. Jüni P, Altman DG, Egger M. Systematic reviews in health care: assessing the
               quality of controlled clinical trials. BMJ 2001;323:42-6.



                                                                                                        97



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 97                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:10
          Systematic Reviews


          106. Egger M, Jüni P, Bartlett C, Holenstein F, Sterne J. How important are
          comprehensive literature searches and the assessment of trial quality in systematic
          reviews? Empirical study. Health Technol Assess 2003;7:1-76.
          107. Wood L, Egger M, Gluud LL, Schulz KF, Jüni P, Altman DG, et al. Empirical evidence
          of bias in treatment effect estimates in controlled trials with different interventions and
          outcomes: meta-epidemiological study. BMJ 2008;336:601-5.
          108. Balk EM, Bonis PA, Moskowitz H, Schmid CH, Ioannidis JP, Wang C, et al.
          Correlation of quality measures with estimates of treatment effect in meta-analyses of
          randomized controlled trials. JAMA 2002;287:2973-82.
          109. Verhagen AP, de Bie RA, Lenssen AF, de Vet HC, Kessels AG, Boers M, et al. Impact
          of quality items on study outcome. Treatments in acute lateral ankle sprains. Int J
          Technol Assess Health Care 2000;16:1136-46.
          110. Moher D, Jadad AR, Tugwell P. Assessing the quality of randomized controlled
          trials: current issues and future directions. Int J Technol Assess Health Care
          1996;12:195-208.
          111. Downs SH, Black N. The feasibility of creating a checklist for the assessment of the
          methodological quality both of randomised and non-randomised studies of health care
          interventions. J Epidemiol Community Health 1998;52:377-84.
          112. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Systems to rate the strength of
          scientific evidence. Evidence Report/Technology Assessment: number 47. Rockville, MD:
          Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ); 2002.
          113. Moher D, Jadad AR, Nichol G, Penman M, Tugwell P, Walsh S. Assessing the quality
          of randomised controlled trials: an annotated bibliography of scales and checklists.
          Control Clin Trials 1995;16:62-73.
          114. Chalmers TC, Smith H, Blackburn BA, Silverman B, Schroeder B, Reitman D, et
          al. A method for assessing the quality of a randomized control trial. Control Clin Trials
          1981;2:31-49.
          115. Ramsay CR, Matowe L, Grilli R, Grimshaw JM, Thomas RE. Interrupted time series
          designs in health technology assessment: lessons from two systematic reviews of
          behavior change strategies. Int J Technol Assess Health Care 2003;19:613-23.
          116. Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Group. Including interrupted
          time series (ITS) designs in a EPOC review. Draft. Revised April 21, 1998. EPOC
          methods paper: Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Group; 1998.
          Available from: www.epoc.cochrane.org/Files/Website/Reviewer%20Resources/inttime.
          pdf
          117. Jüni P, Witschi A, Bloch R, Egger M. The hazards of scoring the quality of clinical
          trials for meta-analysis. JAMA 1999;282:1054-60.
          118. Colle F, Rannou F, Revel M, Fermanian J, Poiraudeau S. Impact of quality scales on
          levels of evidence inferred from a systematic review of exercise therapy and low back
          pain. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 2002;83:1745-52.




          98



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 98                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:10
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               119. Greenland S. Quality scores are useless and potentially misleading. Reply to “re: a
               critical look at some popular analytic methods”. Am J Epidemiol 1994;140:300-1.
               120. Sterne JA, Egger M, Moher D. Chapter 10: Addressing reporting biases. In: Higgins
               JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions.
               Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available
               from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
               121. Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. Interventions for people bereaved through
               suicide: a systematic review. CRD Report 38. York: University of York; 2008.
               122. King S, Griffin S, Hodges Z, Weatherly H, Asseburg C, Richardson G, et al. A
               systematic review and economic model of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of
               methylphenidate, dexamfetamine and atomoxetine for the treatment of attention deficit
               hyperactivity disorder in children and adolescents. Health Technol Assess 2006;10:1-
               146.
               123. Arai L, Britten N, Popay J, Roberts H, Petticrew M, Rodgers M, et al. Testing
               methodological developments in the conduct of narrative synthesis: a demonstration
               review of research on the implementation of smoke alarm interventions. Evidence &
               Policy 2007;3:361-83.
               124. Popay J, Roberts H, Sowden A, Petticrew M, Britten N, Arai L, et al. Developing
               guidance on the conduct of narrative synthesis in systematic reviews. J Epidemiol
               Community Health 2005;59 Suppl 1:A7.
               125. Popay J, Roberts H, Sowden A, Petticrew M, Arai L, Rodgers M, et al. Guidance
               on the conduct of narrative synthesis in systematic reviews. ESRC Research Methods
               Programme; 2006.
               126. Rodgers M, Sowden A, Petticrew M, Arai L, Roberts H, Britten N, et al. Testing
               methodological guidance on the conduct of narrative synthesis in systematic reviews:
               effectiveness of interventions to promote smoke alarm ownership and function.
               Evaluation 2009;15:47-71.
               127. Mays N, Pope C, Popay J. Systematically reviewing qualitative and quantitative
               evidence to inform management and policy-making in the health field. J Health Serv Res
               Policy 2005;10 Suppl 1:6-20.
               128. Ragin CC. The comparative method: moving beyond qualitative and quantitative
               strategies. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press; 1987.
               129. Schünemann HJ, Oxman AD, Higgins JPT, Vist GE, Glasziou P, Guyatt GH. Chapter
               11: Presenting results and ‘Summary of findings tables’. In: Higgins JPT, Green S,
               editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. Version 5.0.0
               (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available from:
               www.cochrane-handbook.org
               130. Schünemann HJ, Oxman AD, Vist GE, Higgins JPT, Deeks JJ, Glasziou P, et al.
               Chapter 12: Interpreting results and drawing conclusions. In: Higgins JPT, Green S,
               editors. Cochrane handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. Version 5.0.0
               (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available from:
               www.cochrane-handbook.org



                                                                                                      99



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 99                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:11
          Systematic Reviews


          131. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The guide to community preventative
          services: what works to promote health? Task Force on Community Preventive Services
          [monograph online] Atlanta, GA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2005.
          Available from: www.thecommunityguide.org
          132. Busse R, Orvain J, Velasco M, Perleth M, Drummond M, Gurtner F, et al. Best
          practice in undertaking and reporting health technology assessments. Working group 4
          report. Int J Technol Assess Health Care 2002;18:361-422.
          133. Britten N, Campbell R, Pope C, Donovan J, Morgan M, Pill R. Using meta
          ethnography to synthesise qualitative research: a worked example. J Health Serv Res
          Policy 2002;7:209-15.
          134. Whitehead A. Meta-analysis of controlled clinical trials. Chichester: John Wiley &
          Sons; 2002.
          135. Cooper H, Hedges LV, editors. The handbook of research synthesis. New York:
          Russell Sage Foundation, 1994.
          136. Sutton AJ, Higgins JPT. Recent developments in meta-analysis. Stat Med
          2008;27:625-50.
          137. Deeks JJ, Altman DG, Bradburn MJ. Statistical methods for examining
          heterogeneity and combining results from several studies in meta-analysis. In: Egger M,
          Davey Smith G, Altman DG, editors. Systematic reviews in health care: meta-analysis in
          context. 2nd ed. London: BMJ Books; 2001. p. 285-312.
          138. DerSimonian R, Laird N. Meta-analysis in clinical trials. Control Clin Trials
          1986;7:177-88.
          139. Yusuf S, Peto R, Lewis J, Collins R, Sleight P. Beta blockade during and after
          myocardial infarction: an overview of the randomized trials. Prog Cardiovasc Dis
          1985;27:335-71.
          140. Greenland S, Salvan A. Bias in the one-step method for pooling study results. Stat
          Med 1990;9:247-52.
          141. Zhang J, Yu KF. What’s the relative risk? A method of correcting the odds ratio in
          cohort studies of common outcomes. JAMA 1998;280:1690-1.
          142. Sinclair JC, Bracken MB. Clinically useful measures of effect in binary analysis of
          randomized trials. J Clin Epidemiol 1994;47:881-9.
          143. Sackett DL, Deeks JJ, Altman DG. Down with odds ratios! Evid Based Med
          1996;1:164-6.
          144. Bradburn MJ, Deeks JJ, Berlin JA, Russell Localio A. Much ado about nothing: a
          comparison of the performance of meta-analytical methods with rare events. Stat Med
          2007;26:53-77.
          145. Rosenthal R. Parametric measures of effect size. In: Cooper H, Hedges LV, editors.
          The handbook of research synthesis. New York: Russell Sage Foundation; 1994. p. 231-
          44.




          100



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 100                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:11
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               146. Glass GV. Primary, secondary and meta-analysis of research. Education Res
               1976;5:3-8.
               147. Parmar MK, Torri V, Stewart L. Extracting summary statistics to perform meta-
               analyses of the published literature for survival endpoints. Stat Med 1998;17:2815-34.
               148. Williamson PR, Tudur Smith C, Hutton JL, Marson AG. Aggregate data meta-
               analysis with time-to-event outcomes. Stat Med 2002;21:3337-51.
               149. Tierney JF, Stewart LA, Ghersi G, Burdett S, Sydes MR. Practical methods for
               incorporating summary time-to-event data into meta-analysis. Trials 2007;8:16.
               150. Altman DG, De Stavola BL, Love SB, Stepniewska KA. Review of survival analyses
               published in cancer journals. Br J Cancer 1995;72:511-18.
               151. Pocock SJ, Clayton TC, Altman DG. Survival plots of time-to-event outcomes in
               clinical trials: good practice and pitfalls. Lancet 2002;359:1686-9.
               152. Lewis S, Clarke M. Forest plots: trying to see the wood and the trees. BMJ
               2001;322:1479-80.
               153. Galbraith RF. A note on graphical presentation of estimated odds ratios from
               several clinical trials. Stat Med 1988;7:889-94.
               154. Chambers D, Epstein D, Walker S, Fayter D, Paton F, Wright K, et al. Endovascular
               stents for abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVAR): a systematic review. Health Technol
               Assess [forthcoming].
               155. Stewart LA, Parmar MKB. Meta-analysis of the literature or of individual patient
               data: is there a difference? Lancet 1993;341:418-22.
               156. Barrat Al, Wyer PC, Guyatt G, Simpson JM. NNT for studies with long term follow
               up. CMAJ 2005;172:613-5.
               157. Glioma Meta-analysis Trialists (GMT) Group. Chemotherapy in adult high-grade
               glioma: a systematic review and meta-analysis of individual patient data from 12
               randomised trials. Lancet 2002;359:1011-8.
               158. Askie L, Duley L, Henderson-Smart D, Stewart L. Antiplatelet agents for prevention
               of pre-eclampsia: a meta-analysis of individual patient data. Lancet 2007;369:1791-8.
               159. Greenhouse JB, Iyengar S. Sensitivity analysis and diagnostics. In: Cooper H,
               Hedges LV, editors. The handbook of research synthesis. New York, NY: Russell Sage
               Foundation; 1994. p. 383-98.
               160. Higgins JP, Thompson SG, Deeks JJ, Altman DG. Measuring inconsistency in meta-
               analyses. BMJ 2003;327:557-60.
               161. Higgins JP, Thompson SG. Quantifying heterogeneity in a meta-analysis. Stat Med
               2002;21:1539-58.
               162. Thompson SG. Systematic review: why sources of heterogeneity in meta-analysis
               should be investigated. BMJ 1994;309:1351-5.
               163. Stewart LA, Clarke MJ. Practical methodology of meta-analyses (overviews) using
               updated individual patient data. Cochrane Working Group. Stat Med 1995;14:2057-79.


                                                                                                       101



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 101                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:11
          Systematic Reviews


          164. Yusuf S, Wittes J, Probstfield J, Tryoler HA. Analysis and interpretation of treatment
          effects in subgroups of patients in randomized clinical trials. JAMA 1991;266:93-8.
          165. Oxman AD, Guyatt GH. A consumer’s guide to subgroup analyses. Ann Intern Med
          1992;116:78-84.
          166. Thompson SG, Higgins JP. How should meta-regression analyses be undertaken
          and interpreted? Stat Med 2002;21:1559-73.
          167. Lau J, Ioannidis JP, Schmid CH. Summing up evidence: one answer is not always
          enough. Lancet 1998;351:123-7.
          168. Rothstein HR, Sutton AJ, Borenstein M. Publication bias in meta-analysis:
          prevention, assessment and adjustments. Chichester: Wiley; 2005.
          169. Sterne JA, Egger M. Funnel plots for detecting bias in meta-analysis: guidelines on
          choice of axis. J Clin Epidemiol 2001;54:1046-55.
          170. Tang JL, Liu JL. Misleading funnel plot for detection of bias in meta-analysis. J Clin
          Epidemiol 2000;53:477-84.
          171. Liu GJ, Wu TX. Clinical implementation of forest plots in meta-analysis. Chinese
          Journal of Evidence-Based Medicine 2004;4:198-201.
          172. Peters JL, Sutton AJ, Jones DR, Abrams KR, Rushton L. Contour-enhanced meta-
          analysis funnel plots help distinguish publication bias from other causes of asymmetry. J
          Clin Epidemiol 2008;61:991-6.
          173. Begg CB, Mazumdar M. Operating characteristics of a rank correlation test for
          publication bias. Biometrics 1994;50:1088-101.
          174. Egger M, Davey Smith G, Schneider M, Minder C. Bias in meta-analysis detected by
          a simple, graphical test. BMJ 1997;315:629-34.
          175. Harbord R, Egger M, Sterne J. A modified test for small-study effects in meta-
          analyses of controlled trials with binary endpoints. Stat Med 2006;25:3443-57.
          176. Sutton AJ, Abrams KR, Jones DR. An illustrated guide to the methods of meta-
          analysis. J Eval Clin Pract 2001;7:135-48.
          177. Taylor S, Tweedie R. A non-parametric ‘trim and fill’ method of assessing
          publication bias in meta-analysis. Technical Report. Fort Collins, CO: Department of
          Statistics, Colorado State University; 1998.
          178. Sutton AJ, Duval SJ, Tweedie RL, Abrams KR, Jones DR. Empirical assessment of
          effect of publication bias on meta-analyses. BMJ 2000;320:1574-7.
          179. Lau J, Ioannidis J, Terrin N, Schmid C, Olkin I. The case of the misleading funnel
          plot. BMJ 2006;333:597-600.
          180. Ioannidis J, Trikalinos T. The appropriateness of asymmetry tests for publication
          bias in meta-analyses: a large survey. CMAJ 2007;176:1091-6.
          181. Dickersin K. The existence of publication bias and risk factors for its occurrence.
          JAMA 1990;163:1385-9.




          102



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 102                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:12
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               182. Dickersin K, Rennie D. Registering clinical trials. JAMA 2003;290:516-23.
               183. Bradley M, Cullum N, Nelson EA, Petticrew M, Sheldon T, Torgerson D. Systematic
               reviews of wound care management (2). Dressings and topical agents used in the
               healing of chronic wounds. Health Technol Assess 1999;3:1-35.
               184. Unnebrink K, Windeler J. Intention-to-treat: methods for dealing with missing
               values in clinical trials of progressively deteriorating diseases. Stat Med 2001;20:3931-
               46.
               185. Higgins JPT, White IR, Wood AM. Imputation methods for missing outcome data in
               meta-analysis of clinical trials. Clin Trials 2008;5:225-39.
               186. Eldridge SM, Ashby D, Feder GS, Rudnicka AR, Ukoumunne OC. Lessons for cluster
               randomized trials in the twenty-first century: a systematic review of trials in primary
               care. Clin Trials 2004;1:80-90.
               187. Eldridge S, Ashby D, Bennett C, Wakelin M, Feder G. Internal and external validity
               of cluster randomised trials: systematic review of recent trials. BMJ 2008;336:876-80.
               188. Elbourne DR, Altman DG, Higgins JP, Curtin F, Worthington HV, Vail A. Meta-
               analyses involving cross-over trials: methodological issues. Int J Epidemiol
               2002;31:140-9.
               189. Sutton AJ, Cooper NJ, Jones DR. Formalising the use of evidence synthesis to
               designing future research coherently and efficiently: a framework proposal [abstract].
               In: 16th Cochrane Colloquium. 2008 Oct 3-7; Freiburg, Germany.
               190. Song F, Altman DG, Glenny AM, Deeks JJ. Validity of indirect comparison for
               estimating efficacy of competing interventions: empirical evidence from published meta-
               analyses. BMJ 2003;326:472.
               191. Glenny AM, Altman DG, Song F, Sakarovitch C, Deeks JJ, D’Amico R, et al. Indirect
               comparisons of competing interventions. Health Technol Assess 2005;9:1-134.
               192. Caldwell DM, Ades AE, Higgins JP. Simultaneous comparison of multiple
               treatments: combining direct and indirect evidence. BMJ 2005;331:879-900.
               193. Salanti G, Higgins J, Ades AE, Ionnidis JP. Evaluations of networks of randomised
               trials. Stat Methods Med Res 2007;17:279-301.
               194. Babapulle MN, Joseph L, Belisle P, Brophy JM, Eisenberg MJ. A hierarchical
               Bayesian meta-analysis of randomised clinical trials of drug-eluting stents. Lancet
               2004;364:583-91.
               195. Price D, Jefferson T, Demicheli V. Methodological issues arising from systematic
               reviews of the evidence of safety of vaccines. Vaccine 2004;22:2080-4.
               196. Lilford RJ, Thornton JG, Braunholtz D. Clinical trials and rare diseases: a way out of
               a conundrum. BMJ 1995;311:1621-5.
               197. Dumouchel W. Meta-analysis for dose-response models. Stat Med 1995;14:679-85.
               198. Sutton AJ, Abrams KR. Bayesian methods in meta-analysis and evidence synthesis.
               Stat Methods Med Res 2001;10:277-303.



                                                                                                       103



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 103                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:12
          Systematic Reviews


          199. Sutton AJ, Abrams KR, Jones DR, Sheldon TR. Methods for meta-analysis in
          medical research. Chichester, UK: John Wiley & Sons Ltd, 2000.
          200. Spiegelhalter D, Abrams K, Myles J. Bayesian approaches to clinical trials and
          health-care evaluation Chichester (UK): John Wiley & Sons; 2004.
          201. Hartling L, Klassen T, Moher D, Tubman M, Chiu A, Wiebe N. Quality of reporting of
          systematic reviews and its affect on estimates of intervention effectiveness [abstract].
          In: 12th Cochrane Colloquium; 2004 Oct 2-6; Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
          202. Glasziou P, Meats E, Heneghan C, Shepperd S. What is missing from descriptions of
          treatments in trials and reviews? BMJ 2008;336:1472-4.
          203. Craig P, Dieppe P, Macintyre S, Michie S, Nazareth I, Petticrew M, et al. Developing
          and evaluating complex interventions: the new Medical Research Council guidance. BMJ
          2008;337:a1655.
          204. Craig P, Dieppe P, Macintyre S, Michie S, Nazareth I, Petticrew M, et al. Developing
          and evaluating complex interventions: new guidance. London: Medical Research
          Council; 2008. Available from: www.mrc.ac.uk/Utilities/Documentrecord/index.
          htm?d=MRC004871
          205. Moher D, Tetzlaff J, Tricco AC, Sampson M, Altman DG. Epidemiology and reporting
          characteristics of systematic reviews. PLoS Med 2007;4:e78.
          206. PLoS Medicine Editors. Many reviews are systematic but some are more
          transparent and completely reported than others. PLoS Med 2007;4:e147.
          207. Taylor RB. The clinician’s guide to medical writing. New York, NY: Springer; 2005.
          208. Hall GM, editor. How to write a paper. 3rd ed. London: BMJ Books, 2003.
          209. Fraser J. How to publish in biomedicine: 500 tips for success. Abingdon: Radcliffe
          Medical Press; 1997.
          210. Iverson C, Flanagin A, Fontanarosa PB, Glass RM, Glitman P, Lantz JC, et al.
          American Medical Association manual of style: a guide for authors and editors. 9th ed.
          Baltimore, MD: Williams & Wilkins; 1998.
          211. American Psychological Association. Publication manual of the American
          Psychological Association. 5th ed. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association;
          2001.
          212. Burchfield RW. The new Fowler’s modern English usage. Oxford: Clarendon Press;
          1996.
          213. Lavis J, Davies H, Oxman A, Denis JL, Golden-Biddle K, Ferlie E. Towards
          systematic reviews that inform health care management and policy-making. J Health
          Serv Res Policy 2005;10 Suppl 1:35-48.
          214. International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE). Uniform requirements
          for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals: writing and editing for biomedical
          publication. Updated October 2007 [internet]. American College of Physicians; 2007.
          [cited 2008 12 Aug]. Available from: www.icmje.org/




          104



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 104                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:12
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               215. Ahmed SM, Maurana CA, Engle JA, Uddin DE, Glaus KD. A method for assigning
               authorship in multiauthored publications. Fam Med 1997;29:42-4.
               216. Smith R. Authorship is dying: long live contributorship. BMJ 1997;315:696.
               217. Wilson P, Petticrew M. Why promote the findings of single research studies? BMJ
               2008;336:722.
               218. Skelton JR, Edwards SJ. The function of the discussion section in academic medical
               writing. BMJ 2000;320:1269-70.
               219. Docherty M, Smith R. The case for structuring the discussion of scientific papers.
               BMJ 1999;318:1224-5.
               220. NHS R&D HTA Programme. Instructions to authors: preparation of reports for the
               HTA programme. Southampton: The National Coordinating Centre for Health Technology
               Assessment; 2007.
               221. Michie S, Johnston M. Changing clinical behaviour by making guidelines specific.
               BMJ 2004;328:343-5.
               222. Grol R, Dalhuijsen J, Thomas S, Veld C, Rutten G, Mokkink H. Attributes of clinical
               guidelines that influence use of guidelines in general practice: observational study. BMJ
               1998;317:858-61.
               223. Michie S, Lester K. Words matter: increasing the implementation of clinical
               guidelines. Qual Saf Health Care 2005;14:367-70
               224. Sackett D, Straus S, Richardson W, Rosenberg W, Haynes R, editors. Evidence-
               based medicine: how to practice and teach EBM. Edinburgh: Churchill Livingstone;
               2000.
               225. Atkins D, Best D, Briss PA, Eccles M, Falck-Ytter Y, Flottorp S, et al. Grading quality
               of evidence and strength of recommendations. BMJ 2004;328:1490-7.
               226. Harris RP, Helfand M, Woolf SH, Lohr KN, Mulrow CD, Teutsch SM, et al. Current
               methods of the US Preventive Services Task Force: a review of the process. Am J Prev
               Med 2001;20:21-35.
               227. Treadwell JR, Tregear SJ, Reston JT, Turkelson CM. A system for rating the stability
               and strength of medical evidence. BMC Med Res Methodol 2006;6:52.
               228. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Kunz R, Falck-Ytter Y, Vist GE, Liberati A, et al. Going from
               evidence to recommendations. BMJ 2008;336:1049-51.
               229. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Kunz R, Vist GE, Falck-Ytter Y, Schünemann HJ, et al. What
               is ’quality of evidence’ and why is it important to clinicians? BMJ 2008;336:995-8.
               230. Guyatt GH, Oxman AD, Vist GE, Kunz R, Falck-Ytter Y, Alonso-Coello P, et
               al. GRADE: an emerging consensus on rating quality of evidence and strength of
               recommendations. BMJ 2008;336:924-6.
               231. Brown P, Brunnhuber K, Chalkidou K, Chalmers I, Clarke C, Fenton M, et al. How to
               formulate research recommendations. BMJ 2006;333:804-6.




                                                                                                       105



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 105                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:12
          Systematic Reviews


          232. Greenhalgh T. How to formulate research recommendations: the pie or the slice?
          BMJ 2006;333:917.
          233. Medical Research Council. Good research practice. London: Medical Research
          Council; 2000.
          234. Lomas J. Retailing research: increasing the role of evidence in clinical services for
          childbirth. Milbank Q 1993;71:439-75.
          235. NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. Getting evidence into practice.
          Effective Health Care 1999;5:1-12.
          236. Ferlie E, Gabbay J, FitzGerald L, Locock L, Dopson S. Evidence based medicine and
          organisational change: an overview of some recent qualitative research. In: Ashburner
          L, editor. Organisational behaviour and organisational studies in health care: reflections
          on the future. Basingstoke: Palgrave; 2001. p. 18-42.
          237. Grimshaw JM, Thomas RE, MacLennan G, Fraser C, Ramsay CR, Vale L, et al.
          Effectiveness and efficiency of guideline dissemination and implementation strategies.
          Health Technol Assess 2004;8:1-84.
          238. Greenhalgh T, Robert G, Bate P, Kyriakidou O, MacFarlane F, Peacock R, et al. How
          to spread good ideas: a systematic review of the literature on diffusion, dissemination
          and sustainability of innovations in health service delivery and organisation. Report
          for the National Co-ordinating Centre for NHS Service Delivery and Organisation R & D
          (NCCSDO). London: NCCSDO; 2004.
          239. Rogers EM. Diffusion of innovations. 5th ed. New York, NY; London: Free Press;
          2003.
          240. Tugwell P, Robinson V, Grimshaw J, Santesso N. Systematic reviews and knowledge
          translation. Bull World Health Organ 2006;84:643-51.
          241. Graham ID, Logan J, Harrison MB, Straus SE, Tetroe J, Caswell W, et al. Lost in
          knowledge translation: time for a map? J Contin Educ Health Prof 2006;26:13-24.
          242. Canadian Institutes of Health Research. About knowledge translation [internet].
          Canadian Institutes of Health Research; 2008. [cited May 14]. Available from:
          www.cihr-irsc.gc.ca/e/29418.html
          243. Bowen S, Zwi A. Pathways to “evidence-informed” policy and practice: a framework
          for action. PLoS Med 2005;2:e166.
          244. Ogilvie D, Craig P, Griffin S, Macintyre S, Petticrew M, Wareham N. Towards a
          translational framework for public health research [unpublished manuscript]: MRC
          Population Health Sciences Research Network; 2008.
          245. World Health Organization. Bridging the ‘know–do’ gap: meeting on knowledge
          translation in global health. 10–12 October 2005. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health
          Organization.
          246. Knott J, Wildavsky A. If dissemination is the solution, what is the problem?
          Knowledge: Creation, Diffusion, Utilization 1980;1:537-78.




          106



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 106                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:13
               Core principles and methods for conducting a systematic review of health interventions


               247. McGuire WJ. Input and output variables currently promising for constructing
               persuasive communications. In: Rice R, Atkin C, editors. Public communication
               campaigns. 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage; 2001. p. 22-48.
               248. Ryan J, Piercy J, James P. Assessment of NICE guidance on two surgical
               procedures. Lancet 2004;363:1525-6.
               249. Sheldon TA, Cullum N, Dawson D, Lankshear A, Lowson K, Watt I, et al. What’s the
               evidence that NICE guidance has been implemented? Results from a national evaluation
               using time series analysis, audit of patients’ notes, and interviews. BMJ 2004;329:999-
               1004.
               250. Mason J, Freemantle N, Browning G. Impact of effective health care bulletin on
               treatment of persistent glue ear in children: time series analysis. BMJ 2001;323:1096-7.
               251. Black N, Hutchings A. Reduction in the use of surgery for glue ear: did national
               guidelines have an impact? Qual Saf Health Care 2002;11:121-4.
               252. Freemantle N, Mason JM, Watt I. Evidence into practice. Prescribing selective
               serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Int J Technol Assess Health Care 1998;14:387-91.
               253. Mason J, Freemantle N, Young P. The effect of the distribution of Effective Health
               Care Bulletins on prescribing selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in primary care.
               Health Trends 1998;30:120-2.
               254. Aristotle. On rhetoric: a theory of civic discourse. New York, NY: Oxford University
               Press; 1991.
               255. McGuire WJ. The nature of attitudes and attitude change. In: Lindzey G, Aronsen
               E, editors. Handbook of social psychology. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing;
               1969. p. 136-314.
               256. Winkler JD, Lohr KN, Brook RH. Persuasive communication and medical technology
               assessment. Arch Intern Med 1985;145:314-7.
               257. Lavis JN, Robertson D, Woodside JM, McLeod CB, Abelson J, Knowledge Transfer
               Study Group. How can research organizations more effectively transfer research
               knowledge to decision makers? Milbank Q 2003;81:221-48.
               258. Hughes M, McNeish D, Newman T, Roberts H, Sachdev D. What works? Making
               connections: linking research and practice. A review by Barnardo’s Research and
               Development Team. Ilford: Barnardo’s; 2000.
               259. Atkin C. Theory and principles of media health campaigns. In: Rice R, Atkin C,
               editors. Public communication campaigns. 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage; 2001.
               p. 49-68.
               260. Weiss CH. The many meanings of research utilization. Public Adm Rev
               1979;39:426-31.
               261. Innvaer S, Vist G, Trommald M, Oxman A. Health policy-makers’ perceptions of
               their use of evidence: a systematic review. J Health Serv Res Policy 2002;7:239-44.
               262. Lavis JN. Linking research to action. In: World report on knowledge for better
               health: strengthening health systems. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization;
               2004. p. 97-130.

                                                                                                       107



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 107                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:13
          Systematic Reviews


          263. Lavis JN, Lomas J, Hamid M, Sewankambo NK. Assessing country-level efforts to
          link research to action. Bull World Health Organ 2006;84:620-8.
          264. Lomas J. Using ‘linkage and exchange’ to move research into policy at a Canadian
          foundation. Health Aff (Millwood) 2000;19:236-40.
          265. Lavis JN, Ross SE, Hurley JE, Hohenadel JM, Stoddart GL, Woodward CA, et
          al. Examining the role of health services research in public policymaking. Milbank Q
          2002;80:125-54.
          266. Dash P. Increasing the impact of health services research on service improvement
          and delivery: a report for The Health Foundation and the Nuffield Trust. London: Health
          Foundation, Nuffield Trust; 2003.
          267. Lavis J, Ross S, McLeod C, Gildiner A. Measuring the impact of health research.
          J Health Serv Res Policy 2003;8:165-70.
          268. Buxton M, Hanney S. How can payback from health research be assessed? J Health
          Serv Res Policy 1996;1:35-43.
          269. Kuruvilla S, Mays N, Walt G. Describing the impact of health services and policy
          research. J Health Serv Res Policy 2007;12 Suppl 1:23-31.




          108



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 108                                                                     8/1/09 09:29:13
               CHAPTER 2
               SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS OF CLINICAL TESTS



               2.1 INTRODUCTION                                                     111
               2.2 DIAGNOSTIC TESTS                                                 113
                   2.2.1 The review question                                        113
                         2.2.1.1 Population                                         113
                         2.2.1.2 Intervention (index test)                          113
                         2.2.1.3 Reference standard/comparator                      114
                         2.2.1.4 Outcome measures                                   115
                         2.2.1.5 Study design                                       118
                   2.2.2 Identifying research evidence                              119
                         2.2.2.1 Sources                                            119
                         2.2.2.2 Database searching                                 120
                   2.2.3 Publication bias                                           120
                   2.2.4 Data extraction                                            121
                   2.2.5 Quality assessment                                         124
                   2.2.6 Data synthesis                                             129
                         2.2.6.1 Assessment of statistical heterogeneity            129
                         2.2.6.2 Meta-analysis                                      130
                         2.2.6.3 Software                                           133
                   2.2.7 Presentation of results                                    133
               2.3 PROGNOSTIC TESTS                                                 135
                   2.3.1 Defining the review question: setting inclusion criteria   135
                         2.3.1.1 Population/study design                            135
                         2.3.1.2 Intervention                                       136
                   2.3.2 Defining the review question: other considerations         136
                         2.3.2.1 Publication bias and sample size                   136
                         2.3.2.2 Cutpoints                                          136
                         2.3.2.3 IPD vs summary data                                137
                   2.3.3 Identifying research evidence                              137
                   2.3.4 Data extraction                                            137
                   2.3.5 Quality assessment                                         138
                         2.3.5.1 Generic criteria                                   139
                         2.3.5.2 Context-specific criteria                          139
                         2.3.5.3 Implementing quality assessment                    139
                         2.3.5.4 Quality of reporting                               140
                   2.3.6 Data synthesis                                             142
                         2.3.6.1 Outcome measures                                   142
                         2.3.6.2 Adjustment for other variables                     142
                         2.3.6.3 Sensitivity analyses                               143
                   2.3.7 Case study                                                 144
                   2.3.8 Systematic review as a driver for improved study quality   146
               REFERENCES                                                           148
                                                                                    109



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 109                                                      8/1/09 09:29:13
          110



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 110   8/1/09 09:29:14
                                                                      Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               2.1          INTRODUCTION

               Clinical tests are routinely used for diagnosis, confirming or excluding the presence
               of a disease or condition (such as pregnancy). They are also used to monitor disease
               progression, assess prognosis, and screen asymptomatic populations for disease. Any
               process that yields information used to inform patient management can be regarded as
               a clinical test.1 This includes a wide range of processes from history taking and physical
               examination to complex imaging techniques. The test itself is an intervention and forms
               part of the continuum of patient care. New tests are adopted into clinical practice for
               a number of reasons, including replacement of an existing test (where the new test is
               expected to reduce the negative impact on the patient, provide better information, or
               equivalent information for less cost), triage (to decide whether a more expensive or
               invasive test is necessary), or as an addition to the existing testing protocol.
               The ultimate aim of any research on clinical tests should be to determine impact upon
               patient management and outcome. An RCT comparing the effect of different diagnostic
               strategies on one or more clinical outcomes could be considered ideal, as it provides
               direct information on the benefit to patients and can be modified to address various
               types of diagnostic question.2 However, RCTs may not be appropriate for addressing all
               diagnostic questions3, 4 and to date much of the research on diagnostic tests is in the
               form of test accuracy studies. The basic aim of test accuracy studies is to assess how
               well a test can distinguish between people with and without the disease/condition of
               interest. The outcome measures used describe the probabilistic relationships between
               positive and negative test results, and the presence or absence of disease, as compared
               with the best currently available method (i.e. the clinical reference standard). As such,
               test accuracy studies do not directly measure the relative benefits and harms to patients
               of testing. Evidence on the accuracy of a test, combined with evidence of a prognostic
               link between the target condition and preventable morbidity/mortality, may be
               considered indicative of the likely effectiveness of the test.5 Where a new test is being
               evaluated, evidence for a prognostic link between the target disease/condition and
               long-term morbidity or mortality should be available as should an effective intervention.
               However, this is not always the case as tests can be established in clinical practice with
               limited supporting evidence.
               When considering a systematic review of test accuracy studies, it is important to assess
               whether review findings will be able to provide the information necessary to inform
               clinical practice. Any review of test accuracy is likely to be of limited value where
               evidence is lacking that the disease/condition is associated with long-term morbidity
               or mortality, or where no effective intervention is available. This is illustrated by the
               following examples:

                  •     Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) versus intra-arterial Digital Subtraction
                        Angiography (DSA) for the detection of carotid artery stenosis.6 There is evidence
                        from RCTs that carotid endarterectomy is an effective treatment for symptomatic
                        carotid artery stenosis at thresholds defined by DSA. MRA is a less invasive test
                        option. A review of test accuracy is therefore likely to be informative.
                  •     Ultrasound versus Micturating Cystourethrography (MCUG) for the detection of
                        vesicoureteric reflux (VUR) in children with urinary tract infection (UTI).7 There
                        is conflicting evidence of a link between VUR and long-term renal damage and


                                                                                                        111



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 111                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:14
          Systematic Reviews


                    the effectiveness of treatment options, such as prophylactic antibiotics, is also
                    uncertain. A review of test accuracy alone is therefore unlikely to be informative.
          Although some study designs, such as those based upon multivariable prediction
          modelling, may better reflect the true nature of the diagnostic workup and are
          potentially more informative than test accuracy studies,8, 9 they are rare. Consequently,
          systematic review methods for assessing clinical tests have largely focused upon test
          accuracy studies and this chapter discusses methods developed specifically to deal
          with such studies. Section 2.2 focuses on diagnostic accuracy studies, but the methods
          described also apply to test accuracy studies used to assess the performance of new
          screening tests, within established screening programmes. The clinical effectiveness
          of screening programmes is best evaluated using RCTs and systematic reviews of such
          studies should follow the principles outlined in Chapter 1. Section 2.3 describes methods
          for reviewing prognostic studies.
          In light of the limitations described in relation to test accuracy studies, careful
          consideration should always be given to the likely informative value and any additional
          data requirements before undertaking a systematic review of test accuracy.




          112



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 112                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:14
                                                                    Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               2.2          DIAGNOSTIC TESTS

               2.2.1        The review question

               As with all systematic reviews, the development of a clear, well-defined question is
               essential to maintaining transparency of the review process and to the quality and
               relevance of the findings. Some aspects of the question require particular consideration
               when planning a review of test accuracy.


               2.2.1.1 Population

               Diagnostic tests perform differently in different populations,10, 11 for example it would
               generally be inappropriate to evaluate the performance of a test in a secondary care
               population when the test is mainly used in primary care. Both frequency and severity of
               the target condition would be expected to be greater in secondary care. It is therefore
               important to clearly define the population of interest. The ideal study sample for a test
               accuracy study is a consecutive or randomly selected series of patients in whom the
               target condition is suspected, or for screening studies, the target population. Because
               participant sampling methods are often poorly reported in test accuracy studies,12
               using the sampling method as an inclusion/exclusion criterion is likely to result in
               a substantial reduction in available data. It is likely to be more useful to consider
               the sampling method and/or its reporting as an aspect of study quality (see Section
               2.2.5 Quality assessment) and to base the inclusion criteria relating to the population
               upon participant characteristics. For example in a review comparing the accuracy of
               different imaging techniques, the inclusion criteria might state that only patients with a
               specified level of symptoms, representative of those in whom the test would be used for
               intervention planning, are eligible.


               2.2.1.2 Intervention (index test)

               In reviews of test accuracy the ‘index test’ (the test whose performance is being
               evaluated) can be viewed as the intervention. As with any review, the scope of the
               question can be broad such as ‘what is the optimum testing pathway for the diagnosis
               and follow-up investigation of childhood urinary tract infection (UTI)?’13 or it can
               be narrow; for example ‘what is the diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance
               angiography (MRA) when compared with intra-arterial x-ray angiography, for the
               detection of carotid artery stenosis?’6 The former is likely to include a number of
               different technologies, addressing multiple target conditions, whereas the latter
               compares the performance of an alternative (replacement), less invasive or less
               costly diagnostic technology with that of the reference standard for the detection of a
               specified target condition. The rate of technological development may be an important
               consideration; in this latter example inclusion of MRA techniques that are already
               obsolete in clinical practice, is unlikely to be useful.
               Careful consideration should always be given to the equivalence of different analytical
               techniques when setting inclusion criteria. For example, a systematic review of faecal
               occult blood tests to screen for colorectal cancer14, 15 evaluated both immunochemical


                                                                                                     113



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 113                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:14
          Systematic Reviews


          and colourimetric methods for detecting blood in the faeces; though both methods
          target blood, they cannot be considered equivalent tests.
          The traditional concept of test accuracy often implies the dichotomisation of data into
          test results which are classified as positive (target condition present) or negative (target
          condition absent). Any systematic review of test accuracy will therefore need to consider
          diagnostic thresholds (points at which results are classified as positive or negative) for
          each included index test.


          2.2.1.3 Reference standard/comparator

          The reference standard is usually the best test currently available, and is the standard
          against which the index test is compared. It need not be the test used routinely in
          practice (although it can be), and may include information which is not known for some
          time after the tests have been done (e.g. follow-up of test negatives in cancer).
          The test accuracy study is based upon a one-sided comparison between the results of
          the index test and those of the reference standard. Any discrepancy is assumed to arise
          from error in the index test. Selection of the reference standard is therefore critical to
          the validity of a test accuracy study and the definition of the diagnostic threshold forms
          part of that reference standard.
          It is important to note that the assumption of 100% accuracy for the reference standard
          rarely holds true in practice. This represents a fundamental flaw in the test accuracy
          study design, since the index test can never be deemed to perform better than the
          reference standard, and its value may therefore be underestimated.16
          Where several tests are available to diagnose the target condition, there is often
          no consensus about which test constitutes the reference standard. In such cases a
          composite reference standard, which combines the results of several available tests to
          produce a better indicator of true disease status may be used.17 A number of statistical
          methods have been proposed to estimate the performance of tests in the absence of a
          single accepted reference standard.18, 19
          There may be instances when it is deemed unethical to use an invasive procedure as
          a reference standard in a study.20 In such cases, clinical follow-up and final diagnosis
          may sometimes be used as a surrogate reference standard. There will also be occasions
          when clinical follow-up and final diagnosis provides the most appropriate reference
          standard. The length of follow-up should ideally be defined in advance. Studies using
          follow-up and clinical outcome in this way may be viewed as prognostic studies in that
          they are measuring the accuracy with which the test is able to predict a future event,
          rather than the accuracy with which it is able to determine current status. Where such
          studies are included in a systematic review, it is important to define, in advance, what
          constitutes appropriate follow-up and hence an adequate reference standard.
          The comparator is an alternative test, usually that which is used in current practice,
          against which the index test must be evaluated in order to assess its potential role.
          Ideally, this should be done by comparing index test and comparator to the reference
          standard in the same population.




          114



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 114                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:15
                                                                       Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               2.2.1.4 Outcome measures

               The primary outcome of interest for any systematic review of test accuracy is the data
               required to populate 2 x 2 contingency tables. These describe the relationship between
               the results of the index test and the reference standard at a given diagnostic threshold
               (point at which results are classified as positive or negative). The table includes the
               number of true positives (TP: those that have the disease and test positive), false
               positives (FP: those that do not have the disease and test positive), false negatives (FN:
               those that do have the disease and test negative) and true negatives (TN: those that do
               not have the disease and test negative). See Figure 2.1.



                                                                    Reference standard
                                                                   Positive      Negative
                                                 Positive            TP             FP
                                  Index test
                                                Negative             FN             TN

               Figure 2.1: The 2x2 contingency table


               From the 2 x 2 contingency table, the following commonly used measures of test
               performance can be calculated:
               Sensitivity =
                                                            TP
                                                         TP + FN

               The proportion of people with the target condition who have a positive test result.
               Specificity =
                                                            TN
                                                         TN + FP

               The proportion of people without the target condition who have a negative test result.
               Overall accuracy =
                                                         TP + TN
                                                    TP + FN + FP + TN

               The proportion of people correctly classified by the test.
               Positive predictive value =
                                                            TP
                                                         TP + FP

               The probability of disease among persons with a positive test result.




                                                                                                       115



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 115                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:15
          Systematic Reviews


          Negative predictive value =
                                                           TN
                                                         TN + FN

          The probability of non-disease among persons with a negative test result.
          Positive likelihood ratio =
                                       ⎛ TP ⎞
                                       ⎜⎜          ⎟⎟
                                        ⎝ TP + FN ⎠
                                        ⎛ FP ⎞                      Sensitivity
                                        ⎜⎜          ⎟⎟
                                         ⎝ FP + TN ⎠       or      1– Specificity

          Negative likelihood ratio =
                                        ⎛ FN ⎞
                                        ⎜⎜         ⎟⎟
                                         ⎝ TP + FN ⎠
                                       ⎛ TN ⎞                      1– Sensitivity
                                       ⎜⎜ TN + FN ⎟⎟
                                        ⎝           ⎠      or       Specificity

          Likelihood ratios (LR) describe how many times more likely it is that a person with
          the target condition will receive a particular test result than a person without. Positive
          likelihood ratios greater than 10 or negative likelihood ratios less than 0.1 are
          sometimes judged to provide convincing diagnostic evidence.21
          Diagnostic odds ratio =
                                                         TP × TN
                                                         FP × FN

          Used as an overall indicator of diagnostic performance and calculated as the odds of
          a positive test result among those with the target condition, divided by the odds of a
          positive test result among those without the condition.




          116



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 116                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:15
                                                                          Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               In primary studies, a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve describes the
               relationship between ‘true positive fraction’ (sensitivity) and ‘false positive fraction’
               (1– specificity) for different positivity thresholds. It is used to display the trade-offs
               between sensitivity and specificity as a result of varying the diagnostic threshold.
               Below is an example ROC analysis for serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) as a
               diagnostic test for primary hypothyroidism:

               Test results (Serum TSH) vs. reference standard (thyroid status)

               Serum TSH (mIU/L)                      Number with primary             Number without primary
                                                        hypothyroidism                   hypothyroidism

               <6                                               17                                325
               6-12                                             42                                158
               13-15                                            46                                48
               16-20                                            66                                33
               >20                                             284                                 5


               2 x 2 contingency data for serum TSH diagnostic threshold (derived by summing the numbers of
               participants, with and without primary hypothyroidism, on either side of the diagnostic threshold)

               Diagnostic threshold for a
               positive test result (mIU/L)            TP               FP                FN              TN

               ≥6                                     438               244               17              325
               >12                                    396               86                59              483
               >15                                    350               38               105              531
               >20                                    284                5               171              564


               Sensitivity and specificity values for each diagnostic threshold (derived from the 2 x 2 contingency
               data and expressed as percentages)

               Diagnostic threshold for a positive test
               result (mIU/L)                                           Sensitivity               Specificity

               ≥6                                                         96.2%                     57.1%
               >12                                                        87.0%                     84.9%
               >15                                                        76.9%                     93.3%
               >20                                                        62.4%                     99.1%




                                                                                                                117



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 117                                                                                  8/1/09 09:29:16
          Systematic Reviews


                             1

                           0.9                                                 6 mIU/L
                                       Q*
                                                  12 mIU/L
                           0.8
                                            15 mIU/L
                           0.7

                           0.6        20 mIU/L

                           0.5
                                                                                                               line of symmetry
                           0.4                                                                             (sensitivity = specificity)

                           0.3

                           0.2                               ROC curve for an un-informative test
                                                                (sensitivity + specificity = 1)
                           0.1

                             0
                                  0         0.1        0.2       0.3        0.4       0.5           0.6    0.7          0.8          0.9   1
                                                                     False positive rate (1-specificity)



          Figure 2.2: Example ROC curve for thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH)


          ‘Q*’, or maximal joint sensitivity and specificity, is the point on the ROC curve that
          intersects with the line of symmetry. It is sometimes used as an indicator of overall
          test performance where there is no clinical preference for maximising either sensitivity
          (minimizing false negatives) or specificity (minimizing false positives). However Q* is
          not useful if the thresholds at which tests have been evaluated do not lie close to the
          line of symmetry and can then give misleading results if used to compare performance
          between tests.
          In some scenarios (e.g. tests used in population screening) a threshold which skews
          diagnostic performance may be preferable (e.g. minimizing the number of false
          negatives at the expense of some increase in the number of false positive results,
          in conditions/diseases where missing the presence of disease will lead to serious
          consequences). Overall diagnostic accuracy is summarised by the area under the curve
          (AUC); the closer the curve is to the upper left hand corner the better the diagnostic
          performance.22 The AUC ranges from 0 to 1, with 0.5 indicating a poor test where the
          accuracy is equivalent to chance.
          As with other types of intervention, when assessing the clinical effectiveness of a
          diagnostic test, it is important to consider all outcome measures which may be relevant
          to the use of the test in practice. These might include adverse events (see Chapter 4)
          and the preferences of patients, although inclusion of such information is rare.


          2.2.1.5 Study design

          There are two basic types of test accuracy study: ’single-gate’ which are similar to
          consecutive series (and previously sometimes called diagnostic cohort studies) and
          ’two-gate’ which are similar to case-control studies. The term ‘two-gate’ being used



          118



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 118                                                                                                                8/1/09 09:29:16
                                                                      Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               where two sets of inclusion criteria or ‘gates’ are applied, one for participants who have
               the target condition and one for those who do not. These designs differ in structure
               from other cohort and case-control studies in that both are generally cross-sectional in
               nature.23

                  •     The single-gate design includes participants in whom the disease status is
                        unknown, and compares the results of the index test with those of the reference
                        standard used to confirm diagnosis, i.e. it is broadly representative of the
                        scenario in which the test would be used in practice.
                  •     The two-gate design compares the results of the index test in patients with
                        an established diagnosis of the target condition with its results in healthy
                        controls or controls with another diagnosis (known status, with respect to
                        the target condition, is therefore treated as the reference standard); i.e. it is
                        unrepresentative of practice and is unlikely to contain the full spectrum of health
                        and disease over which the test would be used.
               There are inherent problems with the two-gate design that may lead to bias. The
               selective inclusion of cases with more advanced disease is likely to lead to over
               estimations of sensitivity and inclusion of healthy controls is likely to lead to over
               estimations of specificity. The recruitment of healthy controls from the general
               population has been associated with two- to three-fold increases in measures of test
               performance time-to-events derived from a diagnostic cohort design.11, 24, 25 This over
               estimation can be increased further when cases of severe disease are used alongside
               healthy controls.26 By contrast, where cases are derived from individuals with mild
               disease, underestimations of sensitivity can result.27 Where the control group is derived
               from patients with alternative diagnoses, specificity may be under or overestimated,
               depending upon the alternative diagnosis.23 In theory, the two-gate study design could
               produce a valid estimate of test performance if the cases were sampled to match the
               reference standard positive patients in a single-gate study (in terms of the spectrum of
               disease severity) and controls were matched to the reference standard negative patients
               (in terms of the spectrum of alternative conditions). In practice however, this is difficult
               to achieve.23 Whilst two-gate studies are therefore of limited use in assessing how a test
               is likely to perform in clinical practice, they can be useful in the earlier phases of test
               development.28
               Where systematic reviews include both single and two-gate study designs, careful
               consideration should be given to the methods of analysis and the impact of study design
               should be assessed in any meta-analyses.29


               2.2.2        Identifying research evidence

               2.2.2.1 Sources

               The importance of searching a wide range of databases to avoid missing relevant
               diagnostic test accuracy studies has been demonstrated, with MEDLINE, EMBASE,
               BIOSIS, LILACS, Pascal and Science Citation Index all providing unique records.30 The
               reference lists of included studies can also be a useful resource.




                                                                                                       119



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 119                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:16
          Systematic Reviews


          The Cochrane Diagnostic Test Accuracy Working Group31 is creating a database of
          test accuracy studies,32 similar to the non-topic specific Cochrane Central Register of
          Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) which includes details of published articles taken from
          bibliographic databases and other published and unpublished sources.33


          2.2.2.2 Database searching

          Many electronic databases do not have appropriate indexing terms to label test accuracy
          studies, and those that do tend not to apply them consistently.30, 34-36 They also vary in
          their design which adds to the difficulty in identification.34 The problem is compounded
          by the fact that the original authors are often poor at identifying their studies as being
          test accuracy.30
          It has been reported that the use of filters to identify reports of diagnostic test accuracy
          studies in electronic databases may miss a considerable number of relevant articles
          and is therefore not generally considered appropriate.34, 36, 37 Database searching
          should concentrate on terms for index tests and target conditions. If further restriction
          is required, it can be achieved by means of topic specific terms, rather than using a
          filter.36, 38 It is hoped, however, that in time, as the issues of reporting and indexing
          diagnostic, screening and prognostic studies are more widely realised, the situation will
          improve allowing the development of more accurate filters.


          2.2.3        Publication bias

          As the data used in studies of test accuracy are often collected as part of routine clinical
          practice (and in the past have tended not to require formal registration) it has been
          argued that test accuracy studies are more easily conducted and abandoned than RCTs.
          They may therefore be particularly susceptible to publication bias.39 Simulation studies
          have, however, indicated that the effect of publication bias on meta-analytic estimates
          of the Diagnostic Odds Ratio (DOR) is not likely to be large.40
          It has been demonstrated that the unique features of the test accuracy study make the
          application of the Begg, Egger, and Macaskill tests of funnel plot asymmetry potentially
          misleading.40 An alternative approach uses funnel plots of (natural logarithm (ln) DOR)
          vs. (1/√effective sample size) and tests for asymmetry using related regression or rank
          correlation tests.40 It should be noted that the power of all statistical tests for funnel
          plot asymmetry decreases with increasing heterogeneity of DOR. It should also be
          noted that factors other than publication bias, for example aspects of study quality and
          population characteristics, may be associated with sample size.
          Given the limitations of current knowledge, to ignore the possibility of publication bias
          would seem unwise, however, its assessment in reviews of test accuracy is complex.




          120



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 120                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:17
                                                                   Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               2.2.4        Data extraction

               The same precautions against reviewer bias and error should be employed whilst
               extracting data from test accuracy studies as would be applied in any other type of
               review. Independent checking of 2x2 data is particularly important, as test accuracy
               studies are often poorly reported,12, 41 and the production of a 2x2 table from these
               studies can be far from straightforward.
               Some studies may provide the actual results for each test for individual patients. In
               this case the researcher may need to classify each patient according to the diagnostic
               thresholds defined in the review protocol.
               Studies may provide categorical data, which may represent multiple categories or
               stages of disease (as shown in example 1). In this case data will need to be extracted
               for the numbers of index test positive and negative participants (using the threshold(s)
               defined in the review protocol, which may include all thresholds reported) with
               and without the target condition (as defined by the reference standard, using the
               threshold(s) defined in the review protocol).


               Data extraction, example 1

                                                                  Reference standard

                                                0-19%          20-49%          50-79%        80-100%

                                  0–19%            5               8              4              1

                Index test        20–49%           6               4              5              1
                                  50–79%           1               9             15              4
                                  80–100%          2               5              6             10



               If the threshold for a positive test in example 1 was 20% (for both index test and
               reference standard), then the 2x2 data would be extracted as in example 1a.


               Data extraction, example 1a

                                                                 Reference standard
                                                               Positive       Negative
                                               Positive           TP             FP
                                  Index test
                                               Negative           FN             TN




                                                                                                       121



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 121                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:17
          Systematic Reviews


          The value for TP is derived by summing the number of participants, from the shaded
          cells, who have both reference standard and index test results at or above the
          diagnostic threshold (20%), i.e. 4+5+1+9+15+4+5+6+10=59.
          The value for FP is derived by summing the number of participants who have a
          reference standard result below 20%, but an index test result above this threshold, i.e.
          6+1+2=9.
          The value for FN is derived by summing the number of participants who have a
          reference standard result at or above 20%, but an index test result below this
          threshold, i.e. 8+4+1=13.
          The value for TN corresponds to the single cell representing participants who have both
          a reference standard and index test result below 20%, i.e. 5.


                                                            Reference standard
                                                          Positive       Negative
                                               Positive      59             9
                                  Index test
                                               Negative      13             5



          If the index test threshold was increased to 50%, with the reference standard remaining
          at 20% and the same procedure of summing relevant cells applied, then the 2x2 data
          would be extracted as in example 1b.


          Data extraction, example 1b

                                                            Reference standard
                                                          Positive       Negative
                                               Positive      49              3
                                  Index test
                                               Negative      23             11



          There may be instances when the raw data are not reported, but 2x2 data can be
          calculated from reported accuracy measures and total numbers of diseased or non-
          diseased patients. In example 2, 100 patients underwent an index test and reference
          standard test. The study reports that the index test correctly identified 20 diseased
          patients and had a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 95%.




          122



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 122                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:17
                                                                   Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               Data extraction, example 2

               Sensitivity =      TP/(TP+FN) = 0.8
               Therefore          20/(20+FN)=0.8
                                  20=0.8(20+FN)
                                  20=16 + 0.8FN
                                  0.8FN=20-16=4
                                  FN=4/0.8=5
               This gives:


                                                                 Reference standard
                                                               Positive       Negative
                                                   Positive       20
                                   Index test
                                                   Negative       5



               Therefore, if there were 100 patients in total and 25 were reference standard positive,
               then 75 were reference standard negative.
               Specificity =      TN/(TN+FP) = 0.95
                                  TN/75=0.95
                                  TN=75x0.95
                                  TN=71
               As there are 100 patients, FP= 100-(20+5+71) = 4, so the final 2x2 table is:


                                                                Reference standard
                                                               Positive      Negative
                                                   Positive      20              4
                                  Index test
                                                  Negative        5              71



               Somewhat more problematic are cases when the data do not ‘fit’ the 2x2 contingency
               table model. ‘Forcing’ data into a 2x2 contingency table, for example by classifying
               uncertain index test results as FP or FN, may be inappropriate. The contingency
               table can be extended to form a six cell table, which accommodates uncertain or
               indeterminate index test results,42 as shown in Figure 2.3.




                                                                                                    123



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 123                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:17
          Systematic Reviews



                                                                    Reference standard
                                                                   Positive    Negative
                                                  Positive            A            B
                                  Index test   Indeterminate          E            F
                                                  Negative            C            D

          Figure 2.3: The 3x2 contingency table



          The informative value of an indeterminate test result can be assessed using an
          indeterminate likelihood ratio (or LR+/-), defined as the probability of an indeterminate
          test result in the presence of disease divided by the probability of an indeterminate test
          result in the absence of disease.42
          When index test and reference standard give clear results (ie considered determinate),
          but there is incomplete concordance, the 2x2 table may be expanded to accommodate
          a more complete clinical picture. In example 3, taken from an analysis of imaging
          techniques for the localisation of epileptic foci, category E represents those patients
          for whom the index test and reference standard both detected disease, but differing
          numbers of foci. Category F represents those patients for whom the index test and
          reference standard both detected disease, but identified foci in different areas of the
          brain.43


          Data extraction, example 3


                                                                    Reference standard
                                                                   Positive    Negative
                                                  Positive            A            B
                                                  Negative            C            D
                                  Index test
                                               Partially correct      E
                                                  Incorrect           F


          2.2.5        Quality assessment

          Structured appraisal of methodological quality is key to assessing the reliability of test
          accuracy studies included in a systematic review.44 Quality assessment should consider
          the association of individual elements of methodological quality with test accuracy;
          generating overall ‘quality scores’ is not recommended.45
          There are many differences in the design and conduct of diagnostic accuracy studies
          that can affect the interpretation of their results. Some differences lead to systematic
          bias such that estimates of diagnostic performance will differ from their true values,


          124



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 124                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:18
                                                                     Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               others give rise to variation in results between studies, which can limit applicability.
               The distinction between bias and variation is not always clear, and quality assessment
               checklists have tended to include items that are pertinent to both.46, 47 Sources of
               variation and bias that are potentially relevant when considering studies of test accuracy
               are described in Table 2.1. Whilst it is clear that variation (e.g. in the demographic
               characteristics or severity of disease in the study population) can affect the applicability
               of the results of both individual studies and systematic reviews, there is limited evidence
               on the effects of design-related biases in primary studies on the results of systematic
               reviews.11, 24, 26, 48 Research on the impact of design-related biases is largely a work in
               progress, being dependent upon the availability of adequate data sets and consistent
               methods of quality assessment.
               Guidelines for assessing the methodological quality of test accuracy studies were
               first developed in the 1980s.16, 46 A large number of quality assessment tools and
               checklists have since been published, often as part of individual systematic reviews.
               Methodological work has identified 67 tools designed to assess the quality of test
               accuracy studies and 24 guides to the interpretation, conduct or reporting of test
               accuracy studies.49 Only six of the quality assessment tools specified which aspects of
               quality they aimed to cover.50-55 One quality assessment tool46 and one guide to the
               reporting of diagnostic accuracy studies56 provided detailed information of how items
               had been selected for inclusion in the tool, and none reported systematic evaluation of
               the tool.
               QUADAS was the first attempt to develop an evidence-based, validated, quality
               assessment tool specifically for use in systematic reviews of test accuracy studies.47
               The items included in QUADAS were derived by combining empirical evidence from
               three systematic reviews, reported in two publications11, 49 with expert opinion, using a
               formal consensus method.47 The QUADAS criteria and the sources of bias and variation
               to which they relate are given in Table 2.2. Each item is scored as ‘Yes’, ‘No’ or ‘Unclear’
               and generic guidance on scoring has been published.47, 57 It is, however, impossible
               to provide a universally applicable description of how some QUADAS items should be
               scored, e.g. the definition of ‘an appropriate patient spectrum’, or ‘a reference standard
               likely to correctly classify the target condition.’ It is therefore important that guidance
               on scoring be refined for individual reviews, with the definition of what should be scored
               as ‘Yes’, ‘No’ and ‘Unclear’ being specified for each QUADAS item and agreed by the
               whole review team at the start of the review; this should be done in close consultation
               with clinical experts.57 Piloting of the quality assessment process on a small sample
               of included studies should be done in an attempt to eliminate any discrepancies in
               understanding between reviewers.




                                                                                                       125



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 125                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:18
          Systematic Reviews


          Table 2.1: Sources of bias and variation in test accuracy studies11

          Source                      Bias and/
                                      or variation   Description

          Population
          Demographic
          characteristics             Variation      Test may perform differently in different populations.
          Disease severity            Variation      Differences in disease severity may lead to different
                                                     estimates of diagnostic performance.
          Disease prevalence          Variation      The prevalence of the target condition varies with
                                      Bias           the setting and may affect estimates of diagnostic
                                                     performance. In settings of higher prevalence,
                                                     interpreters are more prone to classify test results as
                                                     abnormal (context bias).
          Participant selection       Variation      A selection process that may not include a spectrum
                                                     of patients similar to that in which the test will be
                                                     used in practice may limit the applicability of study
                                                     findings.
          Test methods
          Test execution              Variation      Differences in the execution of the index test and/or
                                                     reference standard can result in different estimates of
                                                     diagnostic performance; clear reporting of the
                                                     methods used is therefore important.
          Technological               Variation      Diagnostic performance of tests can change over time
                                      development    due to technological improvements.
          Treatment paradox           Bias           Occurs when treatment is started, based upon the
                                                     results of one test prior to undertaking the other;
                                                     thus disease state is potentially altered between
                                                     tests.
          Disease progression         Bias           Occurs when there is sufficient time delay between
                                                     the application of the index test and the reference
                                                     standard to allow change in the disease state.
          Application of the reference standard
          Use of an inappropriate     Bias           The error in diagnoses derived from an imperfect
          reference standard                         reference standard can result in underestimation of
                                                     the performance of the index test.
          Differential verification   Bias           Occurs when the diagnosis is verified using different
                                                     reference standards, depending upon the result of the
                                                     index test.
          Partial verification        Bias           Occurs where only a selected sample of participants
                                                     undergoing the index test also receive the reference
                                                     standard.
                                                                                             (Continued)




          126



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 126                                                                                8/1/09 09:29:18
                                                                      Systematic reviews of clinical tests



               Source                    Bias and/
                                         or variation   Description

               Interpretation (reading process)
               Test or diagnostic        Bias           Where interpretation of either the index test or
               review                                   reference standard may be influenced by knowledge
                                                        of the results of the other test. Diagnostic review bias
                                                        may be present when the results of the index test
                                                        are known to those interpreting the reference
                                                        standard. Test review bias may be present when the
                                                        results of the reference standard are known to those
                                                        interpreting the index test.
               Clinical review           Bias           The availability of other relevant clinical information
                                                        (e.g. symptoms, co-morbidities) may also affect
                                                        estimates of test performance.
               Incorporation             Bias           Occurs when the result of the index test is used in
                                                        establishing the final diagnosis (i.e. it forms part of
                                                        the reference standard).
               Observer                  Variation      The interpretation placed upon a test result may vary
                                                        between observers and this can affect estimates of
                                                        test accuracy. The reproducibility of a test within
                                                        (intra) and between (inter) observers affects its
                                                        applicability in practice.
               Analysis
               Handling of               Bias           Diagnostic tests fail or produce un-interpretable
               un-interpretable                         results with varying frequency. Study participants
               results                                  for whom a test result could not be obtained are
                                                        often removed from reported analyses. This may lead
                                                        to a biased assessment of test performance.
               Arbitrary choice of       Variation      The choice of a threshold value based upon that
               threshold value (the                     which maximises sensitivity and specificity for the
               diagnostic threshold is                  study data may result in exaggerated estimates of
               derived from the same                    test performance. The test may perform less well at
               data set in which test                   the chosen threshold when evaluated in a new
               performance is evaluated)                independent patient set.



               QUADAS is a generic tool, which may be adapted to optimise its usefulness for specific
               topic areas. Researchers should, therefore, also consider in advance whether all
               QUADAS items are relevant to their topic area, and whether there are any additional
               items that are not included in QUADAS.57 For example, disease progression bias may
               not be a relevant issue where the clinical course of the target condition is slow; when
               comparing the performance of imaging tests, or other tests which require subjective
               interpretation by the operator, the impact of observer variation may need to be
               considered as variation in test performance with individual operators of the same test
               (e.g. different individuals conducting and/or interpreting an ultrasound examination) can
               exceed, and therefore mask, a difference in performance between two different tests
               (e.g. ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging).58, 59


                                                                                                             127



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 127                                                                                   8/1/09 09:29:19
          Systematic Reviews


          Table 2.2: The QUADAS items

          QUADAS criterion                                               Bias/variation assessed

          Was the spectrum of patients representative of the             Population characteristics
          patients who will receive the test in practice?                (demographic, severity and
                                                                         prevalence of disease)
          Were the selection criteria clearly described?                 Participant selection
          Is the reference standard likely to correctly classify the     Use of an inappropriate reference
          target condition?                                              standard
          Is the time period between reference standard and index
          test short enough to be reasonably sure that the target        Disease progression
          condition did not change between the two tests?
          Did the whole sample or random selection of the sample        Partial verification
          receive verification using a reference standard of diagnosis?
          Did the patients receive that same reference standard          Differential verification
          regardless of the index test results?
          Was the reference standard independent of the index test?      Incorporation
          Was the execution of the index test described in sufficient
          detail to permit replication?                                  Test execution
          Was the execution of the reference standard described in
          sufficient detail to permit replication?
          Were the index test results interpreted without knowledge
          of the results of the reference standard?                      Test review
          Were the reference standard results interpreted without        Diagnostic review
          knowledge of the results of the index test?
          Were the same clinical data available when the test results
          were interpreted as would be available when the test is        Clinical review
          used in practice?
          Were un-interpretable/intermediate test results reported?      Handling of un-interpretable or
                                                                         missing results
          Were withdrawals from the study explained?


          It is worth noting that the information that can be derived from the quality assessment
          of test accuracy studies is often limited by poor reporting. Where QUADAS items are
          scored ‘unclear’ the researcher cannot be certain whether this indicates poor methods
          with the attendant consequences for bias/variation, or simply poor reporting of a
          methodologically sound study. The STARD initiative60 has proposed standards for the
          reporting of diagnostic accuracy studies. If these standards are widely adopted and
          lead to a general improvement in the reporting of test accuracy studies, reviewers
          will increasingly be able to assess methodological quality rather than the quality of
          reporting.




          128



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 128                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:19
                                                                    Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               2.2.6        Data synthesis

               A thorough investigation of heterogeneity should be undertaken before deciding if
               studies are suitable for combining in a meta-analysis and if so what method to use.
               Clinical and methodological differences such as patient populations, tests, study
               design and study conduct, should be considered in addition to statistical variation in
               the accuracy measures reported by studies. Where a meta-analysis is not considered
               clinically or statistically meaningful, a structured narrative synthesis can be carried
               out which can include the presentation of results in one or more graphical formats.61
               For example the results of individual studies can be plotted in ROC space, as in Figure
               2.4, whether or not a summary curve is included. As well as stratification by index test
               characteristics, reviews which focus on determining the optimal diagnostic pathway for
               a condition, rather than the diagnostic performance of a single test, should consider
               structuring narrative reports to represent the order in which tests would be applied
               in clinical practice. Reviews which consider differential diagnosis from a common
               presenting symptom, such as a review of the performance tests to determine the cause
               of haematuria, should consider stratifying the narrative by target condition with the
               most common diagnosis addressed first. These approaches aim to increase readability
               for practitioners and can equally be applied to the structure of reports which include
               meta-analyses.


               2.2.6.1 Assessment of statistical heterogeneity

               Threshold effect
               A source of heterogeneity unique to test accuracy studies, which requires careful
               assessment, arises from the choice of the threshold used to define a positive result.62
               Even when different thresholds are not explicitly defined, variation in interpretation
               by observers may result in implicit variation in threshold. This can be assessed
               visually using a ROC space plot and statistically by measuring the correlation between
               sensitivity and specificity. However, statistical tests may be unreliable where studies
               in a systematic review have small sample sizes; threshold effect may be present but
               undetected by statistical tests. A ROC space plot is a plot of the ‘true positive rate’
               (sensitivity) from each study against the ‘false positive rate’ (1 - specificity). If a
               threshold effect exists then the plot will show a curve (as the threshold decreases
               the sensitivity will increase and the specificity will decrease). This curve follows the
               operating characteristics of the test at varying thresholds.




                                                                                                     129



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 129                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:19
          Systematic Reviews




          Figure 2.4: ROC space plot


          Figure 2.4 clearly shows a curve in the top left hand corner of the plot, indicating
          the presence of a threshold effect. The presence of a threshold effect can also be
          investigated using a regression62 or a hierarchical summary ROC (HSROC) model63 which
          are described in more detail in the meta-analysis section below.


          Heterogeneity of individual diagnostic accuracy measures
          Variability amongst each of the individual measurements (sensitivity, specificity, positive
          and negative likelihood ratio, and DOR) can be assessed using the same methods as
          for other study types. Forest plots can be used to visually assess differences between
          studies, although these will not show any threshold effects. Paired forest plots should be
          used when illustrating paired outcome measures such as sensitivity and specificity. Use
          of statistical tests of heterogeneity does not reliably indicate absence of heterogeneity
          and it is generally advisable to assume the presence of heterogeneity and to fit models
          which aim to describe and account for it.


          2.2.6.2 Meta-analysis

          The meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy studies requires the use of some specific
          statistical methods which differ from standard methods. Meta-analysis has two main
          aims: to obtain a pooled measure of diagnostic accuracy and in the case of summary
          ROC (SROC) models, to explore the heterogeneity amongst studies. Diagnostic accuracy
          is usually represented by a pair of related measurements, for example: sensitivity and
          specificity; positive and negative likelihood ratio; and this relationship needs to be
          incorporated into the analysis methods.




          130



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 130                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:19
                                                                     Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               Pooling individual diagnostic accuracy measures
               A robust approach to combining data and estimating the underlying relationship
               between sensitivity and specificity is the construction of an SROC curve. Methods that
               involve pooling sensitivities and specificities from individual studies, or combining
               positive and negative likelihood ratios fail to account for the paired nature of the
               parameters, and should generally be avoided. However, where only one parameter (e.g.
               sensitivity, but not specificity) is presented, simple pooling of proportions is the only
               option. Assessment of single parameters is usually inappropriate, but is sometimes used
               when there is a specific clinical reason why only one parameter should be the focus of
               interest.
               Diagnostic odds ratios can be pooled using standard fixed or random-effects methods
               for pooling odds ratios. However, these methods do not help estimate average
               sensitivity and specificity and may produce erroneous results where there is a
               relationship between DOR and threshold.64
               Predictive values should not be pooled in meta-analyses as they are affected by the
               prevalence of disease in the populations of the studies. Overall predictive values are
               sometimes calculated using estimates of prevalence from the included studies and
               pooled estimates of likelihood ratios. However, the potentially misleading nature of such
               estimates should be considered carefully.


               Simple methods of estimating summary ROC curves
               The Moses-Littenburg regression based method,62 has been used as a simple method of
               pooling study results in the presence of a suspected threshold effect. It can be used in
               preliminary exploratory analyses and is helpful in understanding the data.65 However, it
               has limitations and should not be used to obtain summary estimates of sensitivity and
               specificity. The usual regression model assumptions are not met.66, 67 It also assumes
               that there is only one result per study and so cannot deal adequately with studies which
               have multiple data sets per test (e.g. data for a number of different thresholds).
               It is possible to pool ROC curves, or the AUC from individual studies although this is
               not recommended and would not be practical in the case where some studies reported
               data for a single threshold and others presented data (or a ROC curve) for a number of
               thresholds.21


               Optimal methods of modelling SROC curves
               Statistical models, including hierarchical and bivariate models, have been developed
               for the estimation of SROC curves in the meta-analysis of test accuracy results. The
               HSROC model63 accounts for both within- and between-study variation in true positive
               and false positive rates. The model estimates parameters for the threshold, log DOR
               and the shape of the underlying ROC curve. It has been shown that it is possible to fit
               this model using statistical package SAS, and that this method provides results that
               agree with the more complex Bayesian methods.68 The HSROC model can be extended
               to deal with studies that provide results for more than one threshold, but programming
               is challenging. The bivariate model67 analyses sensitivity and specificity jointly, therefore
               retaining the paired nature of the original data (a STATA command function has recently
               been produced for the bivariate model). The HSROC and bivariate models have been



                                                                                                        131



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 131                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:20
          Systematic Reviews


          shown to produce equivalent results in the absence of other study-level covariates.69 It
          is recommended that meta-analyses using these models should be undertaken with the
          assistance of a statistician.


          Exploring heterogeneity
          Sources of methodological and/or clinical heterogeneity can be explored using subgroup
          analyses. Ideally subgroups should be planned at the protocol stage. However, where
          this is dependent upon what data are available, and an adaptive process is needed,
          this should be stated clearly in the protocol. Results from different groups, for example
          different tests, or study designs, can be visually assessed by using a ROC space plot
          with different symbols. Figure 2.5 illustrates the divergent accuracy results between
          different study designs from a systematic review of faecal occult blood tests used in
          screening for colorectal cancer,15 which indicates that two-gate studies (white circles)
          overestimate test performance compared with single-gate studies (black circles).



                              S e n s itiv ity
                                   1
                                  0.9

                                  0.8
                                  0.7

                                  0.6
                                  0.5
                                  0.4

                                  0.3
                                  0.2

                                  0.1
                                   0
                                        0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4    0.5   0.6    0.7   0.8   0.9   1
                                                              1-S pe c ific ity


          Figure 2.5: ROC space plot using different symbols


          HSROC and bivariate models can be used to assess heterogeneity by including
          covariates. These models allow investigation of the effect of covariates on sensitivity
          and specificity separately, rather than just the DOR (although this can still be obtained).
          Further research is needed to determine which SROC models are the most appropriate
          for the exploration of heterogeneity as the choice of model may depend on which
          accuracy measure (DOR, sensitivity, specificity) is most affected.69 An overview of the
          different methods used to explore heterogeneity in systematic reviews of diagnostic test
          accuracy is available.70 It should be noted that, as for meta-regression analyses of other
          study designs, these analyses are exploratory, can only include covariates reported by


          132



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 132                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:20
                                                                     Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               the studies and should not be conducted if there are only a small number of studies
               (a minimum of 10 studies per covariate is needed). Regardless of the approach used,
               study-level factors to be examined should be defined in the protocol and aspects of
               methodological quality, (e.g. QUADAS items) should be considered individually, rather
               than as overall quality scores.45, 48


               2.2.6.3 Software

               Methods for calculating outcome measures, assessing heterogeneity, producing plots
               (both with and without summary estimates) and undertaking exploratory analyses
               using the Moses model are available in a user-friendly form in the Meta-DiSc software
               (www.hrc.es/investigacion/metadisc_en.html).71 Systematic reviews of diagnostic
               accuracy studies have been incorporated in version 5.0 of the Cochrane Review
               Manager software. More specialist statistical software packages, such as STATA, SAS or
               WINBUGS, are needed to fit HSROC/bivariate models and the support of a statistician
               with knowledge of the field is generally recommended.


               2.2.7        Presentation of results

               When presenting the results of a systematic review of clinical tests it is important to
               consider how these results will be understood by clinicians and applied in practice. The
               understanding of and preferences for measures of test performance by clinicians has
               been the subject of much research and comment.72-74 The ‘best’ method remains elusive
               but some general points, which may improve clarity and aid interpretation, are given
               below.
               The presentation of diagnostic measures should be similar for both narrative and meta-
               analytic approaches, with graphical representation and/or tabulation of individual study
               results and additional results presented if meta-analysis was performed. Sufficient detail
               of the tests, participants, study design and conduct should be presented in tables.75
               The 2 x 2 table results of TP, FP, FN and TN together with sensitivity and specificity,
               as a minimum should be presented for each study. The choice of accuracy measures
               presented depends on the aims and anticipated users of the review. Sensitivity and
               specificity and likelihood ratios are measures of test performance; likelihood ratios may
               be more useful in a clinical setting as they can be used to calculate the probability of
               disease given a particular test result, whereas DORs are difficult to interpret clinically.22
               Forest plots or ROC space plots provide useful visual summaries and can be easier
               to interpret than large tables of numbers. The ranges should be presented when
               summarising results which have not been subject to meta-analytic pooling. For paired
               results it may be useful to also present the corresponding measure for the studies at
               each end of the range, e.g. ‘sensitivity ranged from 48% (at a specificity of 80%) to
               92% (at a specificity of 70%)’.
               If a meta-analysis was undertaken then the presentation of results depends on the
               methods used. If sensitivity or specificity have been pooled as individual measures
               then the summary estimate together with the 95% confidence intervals should be
               presented. If an SROC model has been used then the relevant SROC curve(s) should be
               presented. Where the performance of a number of index tests is being compared it may


                                                                                                        133



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 133                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:21
          Systematic Reviews


          be useful to present multiple SROC curves (or un-pooled data sets) on the same plot.
          Summary measures of overall diagnostic accuracy, such as AUC or the Q* point (the
          point on the curve where sensitivity and specificity are equal) may also be presented.
          However, the relevance of the Q* point is debatable, as its use may lead to summary
          estimates of sensitivity and specificity outside the values in the original studies.67 Pairs
          of sensitivity and specificity values can also be read from the SROC curve and presented
          as a number of summary points in order to provide an overall description of the curve.
          The estimated SROC curves should also be presented if HSROC or bivariate models have
          been used. These models enable the calculation of summary estimates of sensitivity
          and specificity, which should be reported along with their 95% confidence intervals.
          Although the use of HSROC or bivariate models to generate summary likelihood ratios
          is not recommended,76 where likelihood ratios are considered helpful to interpretation,
          summary likelihood ratios can be calculated from the pooled estimates of sensitivity
          and specificity generated by these models. For results from a HSROC or bivariate
          model, as these retain the paired nature of sensitivity and specificity, a region can be
          plotted around the summary operating point which represents the 95% confidence
          intervals of both measures.67 Confidence interval regions can also be plotted for the
          results of individual studies, but care is required to ensure that these are not mistakenly
          interpreted as representations of study weighting. Both models can also be used to plot
          a prediction region; this is the region which has a particular probability of including the
          true sensitivity and specificity of a future study.69



              Summary: Diagnostic studies

              •     Researchers planning systematic reviews of test accuracy should give careful
                    consideration to context (e.g. is there evidence of a prognostic link between
                    the target condition and preventable morbidity/mortality).
              •     Diagnostic tests should be evaluated in patients who are representative
                    of those in whom the test will be used in practice; ideally a consecutive or
                    randomly selected series whose diagnosis is unknown at the time of testing.
              •     Careful consideration should be given to what is the appropriate reference
                    standard to establish diagnosis.
              •     Difficulties in searching bibliographic databases for test accuracy studies and
                    the lack of suitable methodological search filters mean that more specific
                    searches carry a risk of missing studies. Searches based upon index test and
                    target condition, which are designed to maximise sensitivity, are therefore
                    recommended.
              •     Test accuracy studies are often poorly reported, hampering data extraction,
                    quality assessment and synthesis.
              •     Though often unable to provide a definitive estimate of test accuracy,
                    systematic reviews can highlight important gaps in the evidence base and aid
                    in the design of future studies.




          134



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 134                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:21
                                                                     Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               2.3          PROGNOSTIC TESTS

               Prognostic markers (biomarkers) are characteristics that help to identify or categorise
               people with different risks of specific future outcomes. They may be simple clinical
               measures such as body mass index, but are more often pathological, biochemical,
               molecular or genetic measures or attributes. Identifying those who are or who are not
               at risk can facilitate intervention choice, and aid patient counselling.
               Prognostic research has to date received much less attention than research into
               therapeutic or diagnostic areas, and an evidence-based approach to the design, conduct
               and reporting of primary studies of prognostic markers is needed.77 Reviews have shown
               that primary prognostic studies are often of poor quality.78
               Synthesis of prognostic studies is a relatively new and evolving area in which the
               methods are less well developed than for reviews of therapeutic interventions or of
               diagnostic accuracy, and available reviews have often been of poor quality.79-82
               Although numbers of completed prognostic reviews are relatively few,83 they are
               becoming more common. Of 294 reviews of prognostic studies published since 1966,
               almost all have appeared since 1996, occurring most commonly in cancer (15%),
               musculoskeletal disorders and rheumatology (13%), cardiology (10%), neurology
               (10%), and obstetrics (10%).79 Available reviews often include large numbers of studies
               and patients. For example, some reviews in cancer and cardiovascular disease have
               reported data on over 10,000 patients for a single marker.84-87
               This section focuses mainly on reviews of studies of potential prognostic markers and
               builds on previous work.88 Given that this is a developing area where methods and
               approaches will undoubtedly change rapidly, this section presents a discussion rather
               than firm guidance. Systematic reviews of studies which develop a prognostic model
               (risk score) are not considered here.


               2.3.1        Defining the review question: setting inclusion criteria

               Defining the review question and setting inclusion criteria should be approached in the
               same way as set out in Chapter 1, Section 1.2 The review protocol. However, some
               aspects of methodology require particular attention when planning a systematic review
               of prognostic studies, and should be considered at an early stage.


               2.3.1.1 Population/study design

               Patients included in a prognostic study are usually selected as an ‘inception’ cohort of
               patients identified very early in the course of their disease, perhaps at diagnosis. Even
               if the cohort is identified retrospectively, it should be followed forwards in time from
               a particular point, such as diagnosis or (if relevant) randomisation. The case-control
               design is liable to bias.89 Careful thought as to what study designs will be included in the
               review is needed.




                                                                                                       135



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 135                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:22
          Systematic Reviews


          2.3.1.2 Intervention

          Although often ignored in prognostic studies, if the intervention that patients receive
          varies on account of perceived prognosis, this precludes an unbiased assessment of the
          prognostic ability of a marker (unless alternative interventions are equally effective).
          Although the intervention effect may be small compared to the effect of important
          prognostic variables and consequently will have little impact on findings, ideally,
          prognostic variables should be evaluated in a cohort of patients treated the same way,
          or that have been included in an RCT.90, 91 The intervention received is rarely reported in
          primary studies.


          2.3.2        Defining the review question: other considerations

          2.3.2.1 Publication bias and sample size

          Evidence of publication and associated reporting biases is accumulating for prognostic
          studies.92, 93 For example, in a systematic review of studies of a marker Bcl2 in non-
          small cell lung cancer, almost all the smaller studies showed a statistically significant
          relationship between Bcl2 and risk of dying, with large hazard ratios, whereas the three
          large studies were all nonsignificant and showed a much smaller effect.94 A recent
          review of the prognostic importance of TP53 status in head and neck cancer showed
          clearly that published studies had larger effects than unpublished studies.80 This is in
          keeping with the belief that epidemiological studies are more prone to publication bias
          than randomised trials.80, 95 Publication bias may indeed be worse as many studies are
          based on retrospective analysis of existing clinical databases, and so in essence they do
          not really exist until published.
          Adequate sample size is equally as important for prognostic studies as for clinical trials,
          but has received little attention. For example, three quarters of 47 papers reporting
          prognostic studies in osteosarcoma had fewer than 100 cases.96 The likely presence of
          publication bias means that small studies are unreliable and for prognostic reviews there
          is a good argument for omitting small studies from meta-analysis, for example those
          with fewer than 100 patients or even 100 events.
          Selective reporting of outcomes is also a concern in prognostic studies. For example, in
          cancer studies the two principal outcomes are time to death (overall survival) and time
          to recurrence of disease (‘disease-free survival’). Many studies, such as in the case-
          study in Section 2.3.7, report only one of these outcomes, which may have been chosen
          in relation to the findings.


          2.3.2.2 Cutpoints

          Most markers are continuous measurements. However, it is very common in cancer,
          and occasionally in other fields, for continuous marker values to be converted to
          binary variables whereby each patient is characterised as having a high or low value.
          Dichotomisation is statistically inefficient,97, 98 but in some fields, notably cancer, it is
          ubiquitous. Dichotomising does not introduce bias if the split is made at the median or
          some other pre-specified percentile. However, if the cutpoint is chosen based on analysis


          136



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 136                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:22
                                                                     Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               of the data, in particular by splitting at the value which produced the largest difference
               in outcome between categories, then severe bias will be introduced.99 Significant
               findings associated with a data-derived cutpoint will be overoptimistic, perhaps by a
               large amount. Such studies may best be excluded from any meta-analysis.
               Many reports do not state how cutpoints were chosen. When the numbers above and
               below the cutpoint differ or are not stated, and when the chosen cutpoint is unique to
               that study, it may be unwise to assume that the choice was made in a valid way.


               2.3.2.3 IPD vs summary data

               Several authors have noted the considerable advantages of obtaining individual patient
               data (IPD),100, 101 and it is clear that IPD could be especially valuable for systematic
               reviews of prognostic markers. In addition to the usual advantages of IPD over
               published summary statistics100 (see Appendix 1), there are some specific advantages.
               Firstly, it may allow inclusion of more studies as not all studies provide the necessary
               outcome data. Secondly, it allows all data sets to be analysed in a consistent way,
               which in this case means adjusting for the same variables and using the same analysis
               method. Thirdly, the marker values can be kept continuous, increasing statistical power
               and informativeness. Finally, it is possible to conduct analyses restricted to clinical
               subgroups, for example by stage of disease.
               The natural extension of standard systematic reviews would be to try to collect IPD from
               all identified studies, whether published or not. Although this has been attempted for
               prognostic studies it has been found to be very time consuming.102, 103 Concerns about
               publication bias and the overhead attached to identifying, obtaining and processing
               each data set have led to the suggestion that for a prognostic meta-analysis of IPD,
               restriction to only the larger studies or perhaps those carried out in one region104 would
               be preferable to one based on summary published data that included every published
               study.77


               2.3.3        Identifying research evidence

               Identifying prognostic studies is hampered by an absence of standard descriptors and
               indexing terms. In recent years search strategies have been developed to identify
               prognostic studies in MEDLINE105 (see Box 2.1) and EMBASE.106 An improved search
               strategy for MEDLINE, CINAHL and HealthStar has recently been presented107 but is as
               yet unpublished.


               2.3.4        Data extraction

               Aspects of particular relevance in prognostic studies include recording how the
               measurements were made (e.g. equipment or assay used), length of follow-up,
               distribution of the marker, any cutpoints used (with rationale), amount of missing data,
               methods of statistical analysis, including variables adjusted for, and the number of
               participants included in the final model.



                                                                                                      137



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 137                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:22
          Systematic Reviews




              Box 2.1: Effective MEDLINE searching strategies for studies of
              prognosis

              Best single term
              exp epidemiologic studies
              The complex search strategy with the highest sensitivity
              incidence.sh.
              OR exp mortality
              OR follow-up studies.sh.
              OR prognos:.tw.
              OR predict:.tw.
              OR course:.tw.
              Key
              exp denotes exploding the succeeding indexing term
              : is a truncation symbol in Ovid
              sh denotes searching in the subject headings
              tw denotes searching for a textword



          A prognostic study with a dichotomous endpoint, such as 30 day mortality after surgery,
          is statistically no different from a diagnostic accuracy study and poses no additional
          difficulties for extraction of results. Random-effects endpoints are desirable but there
          are often difficulties in extracting the log hazard ratio and its standard error from
          published reports. Guidance on how to estimate these quantities when they are not
          given explicitly is available.108


          2.3.5        Quality assessment

          The assessment of the appropriateness of the methodology used in the primary studies
          is a key element of any systematic review, but has been performed in a minority of
          cases in prognostic systematic reviews.79, 109 This may reflect the absence of widely
          agreed criteria for assessing the quality of prognostic studies. Although it is not good
          practice to use quality as an inclusion criterion, an evaluation of reviews79 found that
          this was done in 55/163 (34%) reviews.
          Reviews of prognostic studies have demonstrated that generally the methodological
          quality of included studies is poor. For example, one review which assessed 104
          prognostic studies in kidney disease against eight criteria, found that three-quarters of
          the studies satisfied four or fewer of the eight criteria.78
          As with other study designs, quality scores are problematic.48, 110, 111 For example, a
          quality score was developed which evaluated aspects of study methodology grouped into
          four main categories: the scientific design; laboratory methodology; the generalisability
          of the results; and the analysis of the study data.112 No details were provided of the
          development of this scoring system, and as it includes elements of both methodology


          138



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 138                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:22
                                                                       Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               and reporting it is hard to interpret. Further, for many of the items (e.g. ‘source of
               samples’) there is no explanation of the coding scheme. It is preferable to consider
               specific aspects of methodology related to the risk of bias.
               Despite the lack of empirical evidence to support the importance of particular study
               features affecting the reliability of study findings, especially the risk of bias, theoretical
               considerations and common sense point to several methodological aspects that are
               likely to be important.


               2.3.5.1 Generic criteria

               Table 2.3 lists methodological features that are likely to be important for the internal
               validity of prognostic studies.88 The items are not phrased as questions but rather as
               domains of likely importance. Most authors have presented their checklists as questions.
               For example, ‘Was there a representative and well-defined sample of patients at a
               similar point in the course of the disease?’, taken from a checklist produced by the
               Evidence-Based Medicine Working Group,113 is a question that includes three elements
               from Table 2.3. This checklist is widely quoted, for example in a guide for clinicians,114
               but it omits several of the items in Table 2.3.
               It is generally agreed that to be reliable (and clinically interpretable) a prognostic
               study requires a well-defined (‘inception’) cohort of patients at the same stage of their
               disease, preferably at diagnosis.115 This also illustrates the more general requirement
               that the cohort can be clearly described, which is necessary for the study to have
               external validity.


               2.3.5.2 Context-specific criteria

               There may also be context-related quality aspects that should be considered in
               individual reviews. For example, some studies may have used inferior laboratory
               methods to measure the marker. However, it is important to distinguish aspects of a
               study that might be a cause of bias, and hence be genuinely a matter of quality, and
               those that just reflect variation in study conduct but where no bias is likely. Examples
               of the latter are patient inclusion criteria, length of follow-up, and choice of measuring
               device or assay kit. Such factors may well be a cause of heterogeneity and it may be
               prudent to perform separate (subgroup) analyses to investigate whether they are in fact
               of importance. There are several published checklists for assessing prognostic studies in
               cancer.116-118


               2.3.5.3 Implementing quality assessment

               Quality assessment in prognostic systematic reviews is often incomplete and there is
               wide variation in current practice. A review of reviews identified 14 methodological
               domains grouped within six dimensions relating to the risk of bias of prognostic studies79
               as shown in Table 2.4.




                                                                                                          139



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 139                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:23
          Systematic Reviews


          Table 2.3: A framework for assessing the internal validity of articles describing
          prognostic factor studies88

          Study feature             Qualities sought

          Sample of patients        Inclusion criteria defined
                                    Sample selection explained
                                    Adequate description of diagnostic criteria
                                    Clinical and demographic characteristics fully described
                                    Representative
                                    Assembled at a common (usually early) point in the course of their
                                    disease
                                    Complete
          Follow-up of patients     Sufficiently long
          Outcome                   Objective
                                    Unbiased (e.g. assessment blinded to prognostic information)
                                    Fully defined
                                    Appropriate
                                    Known for all or a high proportion of patients
          Prognostic variable       Fully defined, including details of method of measurement if relevant
                                    Precisely measured
                                    Available for all or a high proportion of patients
                                    If relevant, cutpoint(s) defined and justified
          Analysis                  Continuous predictor variable analysed appropriately
                                    Statistical adjustment for all important prognostic factors
          Intervention subsequent   Fully described
          to inclusion in cohort    Intervention standardised or randomised



          2.3.5.4 Quality of reporting

          Assessment of study quality is often seriously hampered by poor reporting of
          methodological details,119, 120 as is well known for other types of research. The REporting
          recommendations for tumour MARKer prognostic studies (REMARK) initiative has
          proposed guidelines for reporting prognostic studies in cancer, most of which apply to
          any medical context.121 Adoption of the REMARK guidelines should lead to improved
          reporting of prognostic studies.




          140



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 140                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:23
                                                                          Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               Table 2.4: System for assessing quality of prognostic factor studies, with
               proportion of 153 prognostic systematic reviews meeting each item79

                                                      % reviews                                          % reviews
                                                     adequately                                          assessing
               Potential bias                       assessing bias Domains addressed                      domain

               1. Study participation                    55       1. Source population clearly              50
               The study sample represents                           defined                                21
               the population of interest on                      2. Study population described             50
               key characteristics, sufficient                    3. Study population represents
               to limit potential bias to the                        source population or
               results                                               population of interest
               2. Study attrition                        42       4. Completeness of follow-up              19
               Loss to follow-up (from sample                        described                              42
               to study population) is not                        5. Completeness of follow-up
               associated with key                                   adequate
               characteristics, sufficient to
               limit potential bias (i.e., the
               study data adequately
               represent the sample)
               3. Prognostic factor                      59       6. Prognostic factors defined             31
               measurement                                           in study participants to               59
               The prognostic factor of                              sufficiently limit potential bias
               interest is adequately                             7. Prognostic factors measured
               measured                                              appropriately
               4. Outcome measurement                    51       8. Outcome defined                        42
               The outcomes of interest are                       9. Outcome measured                       51
               adequately measured in study                          appropriately
               participants to sufficiently limit
               potential bias
               5. Confounding measurement                13       10. Confounders defined and               21
               and account                                            measured
               Important potential confounders                    11. Confounding accounted for             53
               are appropriately accounted for,
               limiting potential bias with
               respect to the prognostic factor
               of interest
               6. Analysis                               33       12. Analysis described                     8
               The statistical analysis is                        13. Analysis appropriate                  33
               appropriate for the design of                      14. Analysis provides sufficient          32
               the study, limiting potential for                      presentation of data
               presentation of invalid results




                                                                                                                 141



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 141                                                                                   8/1/09 09:29:23
          Systematic Reviews


          2.3.6        Data synthesis

          2.3.6.1 Outcome measures

          In prognostic studies the focus of interest is what may happen in the future. It is
          natural, therefore, that most prognostic studies have outcomes that are the time to
          a specific event, such as death. However, some prognostic studies with dichotomous
          outcomes may inappropriately ignore the time element. For example, a study looking
          at death within three years may classify all patients as dead or alive, but those patients
          who are lost to follow-up before three years (i.e. have censored survival times)
          cannot be so classified and may be excluded. One exception is studies of prognosis
          in pregnancy where outcomes often relate to the birth of the baby (e.g. predicting
          caesarean section or pre-term birth). Such outcomes are genuinely dichotomous and
          can be analysed in the same way as a study of diagnostic accuracy.
          Meta-analysis of time-to event outcomes of aggregate data derived from publications
          is usually done using the generic inverse-variance approach and may use a fixed effect
          or random-effects model (see Chapter 1, Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis). This type of
          analysis and extensions have been discussed, as has investigation of heterogeneity
          in such studies.122, 123 Although the preferred statistical summary is the hazard ratio
          (HR) (see Chapter 1, Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis) many publications do not report
          the HR or the information needed to calculate it. Consequently, some of the identified
          studies cannot be included in the synthesis. Furthermore, non-reporting of appropriate
          statistical summary measures may be more likely if the marker was found not to be
          statistically significantly related to outcome, leading to bias. Statistical methods for
          analysing IPD time-to-event data have been compared,124 and methods have been
          published for combining IPD with published summary data.125
          When all studies have reported data as dichotomous or continuous, meta-analysis may
          be relatively straightforward. However, if there is a mixture of binary, multi-category,
          and continuous representation of the same marker, meta-analysis will be problematic
          and expert input will be advisable. Similar problems have been reported in meta-
          analysis of epidemiological studies.126
          In principle researchers may need to combine estimates of a marker that is kept
          continuous in some studies and dichotomised in others. It is important to note that the
          hazard ratios for those two cases are not comparable so they should not be combined.
          There is a related literature on combining data on dose-response relationships in
          epidemiology.127-129


          2.3.6.2 Adjustment for other variables

          In RCTs the groups being compared are expected to be very similar with regard to
          prognostic factors (baseline characteristics) through the use of a random sequence of
          intervention assignment. In non-randomised studies there is no such safeguard and
          we should expect the groups being compared to differ in various ways. In prognostic
          studies we are comparing individuals with different levels of a marker, whether binary
          or continuous. That comparison could easily be biased by other variables that are
          associated with both the marker and patient prognosis – in other words the comparison
          may be ‘confounded’.

          142



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 142                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:23
                                                                    Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               Furthermore, while it may be of interest to know if a marker considered alone is
               prognostic, in most cases the real aim of a prognostic marker study should be to
               ascertain if the marker adds useful clinical information to what is already known. In
               many clinical contexts much is already known about prognosis, and it is important
               to know whether the new marker offers additional prognostic value over and above
               that achieved with previously identified prognostic variables. As an example, a study
               examined the ‘incremental usefulness’ of 10 biomarkers for predicting the risk of
               cardiovascular events, adjusted for age, sex, and conventional risk factors.130 That
               approach implies the addition of the marker to a statistical model that includes other
               known prognostic variables. As well as addressing the most sensible clinical question,
               adjustment should greatly reduce the risk of confounding.
               Dealing with adjustment presents a problem for synthesis, as individual studies are
               likely to have used different statistical approaches for adjustment and adjusted for
               different selections of variables. Some syntheses avoid this methodological variation by
               using unadjusted estimates.131 While this approach is standard in systematic reviews
               of RCTs, in prognostic studies it replaces one problem with a worse one; unadjusted
               analyses are likely to be biased. Although the unadjusted estimate provides the
               maximum opportunity for comparison of consistent estimates across studies,131 it is
               important to adjust for other prognostic variables to get a valid picture of the relative
               prognosis for different values of the marker. Prognostic studies thus generally require
               analysis using multiple regression analysis, although stratification may be useful in
               simpler situations. For outcomes which are dichotomous or time to a specific event,
               logistic or Cox proportional hazards regression models respectively are appropriate for
               examining the influence of several prognostic factors simultaneously. For this purpose,
               known prognostic factors should preferably not be subjected to a variable selection
               process. Even though such variables may not reach specified levels of significance in a
               particular study, they should be included in the models generated in order to compare
               results to other reported studies. Comparison of models with and without the marker
               of interest provides an estimate of its independent effect and a test of statistical
               significance of whether the new marker contains additional prognostic information.
               In practice, researchers will often find a mixture of adjusted and unadjusted results.
               Only 47/129 (36%) of prognostic marker studies in cancer used multivariate modelling
               in which the marker was added to standard clinical variables.132 A recent review
               presented separate meta-analyses of adjusted and unadjusted results of BCL-2 as a
               protective prognostic marker in breast cancer.133 It demonstrated, as expected, that the
               adjusted hazard ratio was lower than the unadjusted value but these differences were
               small (disease free survival (DFS) HR 1.58 vs HR 1.66). This approach reduces the need
               for speculation about the value of adjustment, which seems a good strategy even if all
               studies are then combined.


               2.3.6.3 Sensitivity analyses

               General considerations of investigating the sensitivity of the review findings to various
               choices apply equally to reviews of prognostic studies. In the specific context of
               prognosis, given the evidence about publication bias, it may be advisable to conduct a
               sensitivity analysis in which smaller studies are excluded.



                                                                                                      143



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 143                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:24
          Systematic Reviews


          2.3.7        Case study

          An example of a systematic review addressing a prognostic question is given in Box
          2.2.87



              Box 2.2: Case study

              Objective
              This systematic review of aggregate data obtained from study publications
              aimed to obtain better quantification of the prognostic importance of Ki-67/MIB-
              1 expression as a marker of cell proliferation in early breast cancer. Ki-67 is
              present in all proliferating cells and there is great interest in its role as a marker
              of proliferation. MIB-1 is a monoclonal antibody against recombinant parts of the
              Ki-67 antigen.
              Inclusion criteria
              The review included studies evaluating the relationship between Ki-67/MIB-1
              status and prognosis in early breast cancer published by May 2006. Studies had to
              have been published as a full paper in English. No minimal sample size or minimal
              median duration of follow-up was defined.
              Searching
              PubMed was searched using the following keywords: ‘breast cancer’, ‘Ki-67’,
              ‘MIB-1’, ‘proliferative index’, ‘proliferative marker’, ‘survival’ and ‘prognostic’. The
              authors also screened references from the relevant literature, including all the
              identified studies and reviews. When the same patient population was reported in
              more than one publication, only the most recent or complete study was included.
              Data extraction
              The methods of Parmar et al134 were used to extract log HR and SE(log HR). Three
              people independently extracted information from survival curves.
              Data availability
              Sixty-eight eligible studies were identified of which 46 studies (including 12,155
              patients) could be included in meta-analyses; 38 studies for disease free survival
              and 35 studies for overall survival.
              Study characteristics
              Table 2.5 shows that there was considerable variation in study characteristics,
              for example in patient characteristics, cutpoint used to define high Ki-67, and
              prevalence of raised levels of the marker. All studies dichotomised Ki-67 values.
              Even studies with the same threshold had prevalence of high values ranging from
              11% to 88%. The studies also varied considerably in the interventions patients
              had received and in the antibody used in laboratory evaluations of Ki-67.
                                                                                            (Continued)




          144



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 144                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:24
                                                                           Systematic reviews of clinical tests



                  Table 2.5: Systematic review of Ki-67 as a prognostic marker in early breast
                  cancer: excerpt from table of study characteristics and results for disease-free
                  survival (hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals) 87

                                                 Follow-
                                                   up
                                                 (median                 Preval-    How
                  Study                    N     months)    Threshold     ence      chosen       HR     95% CI

                  Bevilacqua, 1996        107       74         10%         88%      arbitrary   2.75    1.02 – 7.39
                  Bos, 2003               150      106          10%        42%      arbitrary   2.47    1.08 – 5.65
                                                  (mean)
                  Brown, 1996             674       72          5%         25%      optimal     1.19    0.79 – 1.80
                                                                                    cutoff
                  Caly, 2004              244       72         32%         50%      unclear     1.95    0.92 – 4.14
                                                   (min)
                  Domagala (N0), 1996     111       88         10%         60%      median      3.04    1.03 – 8.99
                  Domagala (N+), 1996     75        88         10%         53%      median      1.38    0.66 – 2.86
                  Erdem, 2005             47        73         10%         28%      median      17.23   2.42 – 122.4
                  Fresno, 1997            146       75         10%         58%      arbitrary   1.81    0.71 – 4.59
                  Gasparini, 1994         165       60         7.5%        50%      mean        2.58    1.21 – 5.49
                  Gonzalez, 2003          221       103        30%          NR      arbitrary   3.18    1.52 – 6.65
                  Goodson, 2000           112       61         24%         50%      mean        2.90    1.18 – 7.15
                  Heatley, 2002           59        60         10%         44%      mean        0.81    0.36 – 1.81
                  Hlupic (N+), 2004       192       180        10%         61%      arbitrary   1.30    0.80 – 2.11
                  Jacquemier, 1998        152       60         3.5%        49%      median      3.29    1.49 – 7.22
                  Jansen, 1998            321       128         7%         48%      median      1.35    1.01 – 1.80
                  Jensen, 1995            118       104        17%         46%      median      3.41    1.44 – 8.06
                  Liu, 2001               773       196       17.8%        50%      median      1.76    1.41 – 2.20
                  Locker, 1992            67        27          9%         34%      tertile     4.19    1.19 – 14.7
                  Mottolese, 2000         157       60         10%         55%      arbitrary   1.82    0.90 – 3.67
                  Pellikainen, 2003       414       57         20%         44%      arbitrary   2.56    1.46 – 4.50
                  Pierga, 1996            136       70          8%         49%      median      1.37    0.64 – 2.91
                  Pietilainen, 1996       188      103         20%         53%      arbitrary   1.88    1.16 – 3.05
                                                  (mean)
                  Pinder, 1995            177       NR         34%         42%      tertile     1.66    1.09 – 2.52
                  Pinto, 2001             295      39.6        10%         46%      arbitrary   1.46    0.74 – 2.87
                  Querzoli, 1996          170      66.5        13%         25%      tertile     2.05    1.11 – 3.77
                  Railo, 1993             326      32.4        10%         11%      unclear     2.39    0.77 – 7.38
                                                  (mean)
                  Etc
                  N: Number of participants; HR: Hazard ratio; CI: Confidence interval
                                                                                                        (Continued)
                                                                                                                  145



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 145                                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:24
          Systematic Reviews




              Meta-analysis
              Study results were combined using the Peto-Yusuf method. No studies were
              excluded because of methodological quality but some studies were excluded
              because suitable data were not available – those included studies which did not
              provide unadjusted results. Random-effects meta-analyses were used because
              there was considerable heterogeneity. Separate meta-analyses were performed
              for overall (OS) and DFS. Both showed a significant association between raised
              Ki-67 and worse survival: HR 1.93 (95% CI: 1.74 – 2.14) and 1.95 (1.70 – 2.24)
              respectively. Table 2.5 shows the reported characteristics and the results (HR) for
              DFS for a subset of the studies.
              The 17 omitted studies were included in a sensitivity analysis with no appreciable
              change to the findings. The authors did not consider possible publication bias.
              Conclusions
              The authors concluded that ‘Despite some limitations, this meta-analysis supports
              the prognostic role of Ki-67 in early breast cancer, by showing a significant
              association between its expression and the risk of recurrence and death in all
              populations considered and for both outcomes, DFS and OS.’ They also noted that
              the reporting of the individual studies was suboptimal and that they had assessed
              only the univariate prognostic value of Ki-67. They suggested that a prospective
              study to examine whether Ki-67 was of prognostic importance over and above
              known factors. Thus, in common with many reviewers of such studies, these
              authors did not feel that the existing literature was strong enough on which to
              base clinical decisions.



          2.3.8        Systematic review as a driver for improved study quality

          Systematic reviews can play a valuable role not just in summarising the findings of
          published studies but also in drawing attention to the poor and inconsistent methods
          used. Good systematic reviews are needed to highlight the weaknesses of the evidence
          base behind prognostic markers and to provide guidance on how better quality studies
          can be carried out in the future. This is true of prognostic studies and it has been
          commented that ‘one has to question why it is acceptable for tumour marker studies to
          be performed with less scientific rigor than studies of new pharmaceutical agents.’135
          As an example, a review of 26 published systematic reviews of prognostic markers in
          cancer found common deficiencies in both conduct and reporting.109 Less than 75% of
          the systematic reviews stated clearly their aims and objectives, the literature search
          strategy, and the study eligibility criteria. Only 20% reported the final number of
          primary studies used. Less than 50% of the systematic reviews reported elements
          of primary study description and analysis, such as sampling methods, cancer stage,
          cutpoint, and numeric results including CIs and P-values. The exception was the sample
          size, which was reported in 73% of the systematic reviews. About half of the systematic
          reviews had carried out a meta-analysis. Of those, some did not include a forest plot
          or numerical summary with confidence intervals. Most had explored heterogeneity,



          146



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 146                                                                     8/1/09 09:29:24
                                                                       Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               but only 66% investigated possible publication/small study bias. Surprisingly, only one
               group of systematic review investigators assessed the quality of the primary studies.



                  Summary: Prognostic studies

                  •     Difficulties in searching the literature for prognostic studies mean that there is
                        a higher risk of missing studies than is the case for RCTs.
                  •     Prognostic variables should be evaluated in a representative sample of
                        patients assembled at a common point in the course of their disease. Ideally
                        they should all have received the same medical treatment or have been
                        included in an RCT.
                  •     There is no standard approach for assessing methodological quality. Prognostic
                        studies are frequently found to be methodologically poor.
                  •     Meta-analysis based on published data is often hampered by poor reporting of
                        methods and results and by variation in study and patient characteristics.
                  •     Publication bias is a common problem in studies of prognosis.
                  •     Meta-analysis of prognostic studies using individual patient data can overcome
                        some of the difficulties.
                  •     Systematic reviews can inform the conduct of better primary studies in the
                        future.




                                                                                                         147



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 147                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:25
          Systematic Reviews


          REFERENCES

          1. Feinstein AR. Misguided efforts and future challenges for research on “diagnostic
          tests”. J Epidemiol Community Health 2002;56:330-2.
          2. Limer J, Bossuyt P. Diagnostic testing and prognosis: the randomised controlled trial
          in diagnostic research. In: Knottnerus J, editor. The evidence base of clinical diagnosis.
          London: BMJ Books; 2002. p. 61-80.
          3. Biesheuvel CJ, Grobbee DE, Moons KG. Distraction from randomization in diagnostic
          research. Ann Epidemiol 2006;16:540-4.
          4. Bossuyt PM, Lijmer JG, Mol BW. Randomised comparisons of medical tests:
          sometimes invalid, not always efficient. Lancet 2000;356:1844-7.
          5. Lord SJ, Irwig L, Simes RJ. When is measuring sensitivity and specificity sufficient to
          evaluate a diagnostic test, and when do we need randomized trials? Ann Intern Med.
          2006;144:850-5.
          6. Westwood ME, Kelly S, Berry E, Bamford JM, Gough MJ, Airey CM, et al. Use of
          magnetic resonance angiography to select candidates with recently symptomatic carotid
          stenosis for surgery: systematic review. BMJ 2002;324:198.
          7. Westwood ME, Whiting PF, Cooper J, Watt IS, Kleijnen J. Further investigation of
          confirmed urinary tract infection (UTI) in children under five years: a systematic review.
          BMC Pediatr 2005;5:2.
          8. Moons KG, Biesheuvel CJ, Grobbee DE. Test research versus diagnostic research.
          Clin Chem 2004;50:473-6.
          9. Moons KG, Grobbee DE. Diagnostic studies as multivariable, prediction research.
          J Epidemiol Community Health 2002;56:337-8.
          10. Ransohoff DF, Feinstein AR. Problems of spectrum and bias in evaluating the efficacy
          of diagnostic tests. N Engl J Med 1978;299:926-30.
          11. Whiting P, Rutjes AW, Reitsma JB, Glas AS, Bossuyt PM, Kleijnen J. Sources of
          variation and bias in studies of diagnostic accuracy: a systematic review. Ann Intern
          Med 2004;140:189-202.
          12. Smidt N, Rutjes AW, van der Windt DA, Ostelo RW, Reitsma JB, Bossuyt PM, et al.
          Quality of reporting of diagnostic accuracy studies. Radiology 2005;235:347-53.
          13. Whiting P, Westwood M, Bojke L, Palmer S, Richardson G, Cooper J, et al. Clinical
          effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of tests for the diagnosis and investigation of
          urinary tract infection in children: a systematic review and economic model. Health
          Technol Assess 2006;10:1-172.
          14. Burch JA, Soares-Weiser K, St John DJ, Duffy S, Smith S, Kleijnen J, et al.
          Diagnostic accuracy of faecal occult blood tests used in screening for colorectal cancer:
          a systematic review. J Med Screen 2007;14:132-7.
          15. Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. Diagnostic accuracy and cost-effectiveness
          of faecal occult blood tests used in screening for colorectal cancer: a systematic review.
          CRD Report 36. York: University of York; 2007.


          148



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 148                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:25
                                                                   Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               16. Riegelman RK. Studying a study and testing a test: how to read the medical
               literature. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins; 2005.
               17. Alonzo TA, Pepe MS. Using a combination of reference tests to assess the accuracy
               of a new diagnostic test. Stat Med 1999;18:2987-3003.
               18. Hui SL, Zhou XH. Evaluation of diagnostic tests without gold standards. Stat
               Methods Med Res 1998;7:354-70.
               19. Rutjes A, Reitsma J, Coomarasamy A, Khan K, Bossuyt P. Evaluation of diagnostic
               tests when there is no gold standard. A review of methods. Health Technol Assess
               2007;11:1-51.
               20. Knottnerus JA, van Weel C, Muris JW. Evaluation of diagnostic procedures. BMJ
               2002;324:477-80.
               21. Deeks JJ. Systematic reviews of evaluations of diagnostic and screening tests. In:
               Egger M, Davey Smith G, Altman DG, editors. Systematic reviews in health care: meta-
               analysis in context. 2nd ed. London: BMJ Books; 2001. p. 248-82.
               22. Deeks JJ. Systematic reviews in health care: systematic reviews of evaluations of
               diagnostic and screening tests. BMJ 2001;323:157-62.
               23. Rutjes AW, Reitsma JB, Vandenbroucke JP, Glas AS, Bossuyt PMM. Case-control and
               two-gate designs in diagnostic accuracy studies. Clin Chem 2005;51:1335-41.
               24. Lijmer JG, Mol BW, Heisterkamp S, Bonsel GJ, Prins MH, van der Meulen JH, et
               al. Empirical evidence of design-related bias in studies of diagnostic tests. JAMA
               1999;282:1061-6.
               25. Pai M, Flores LL, Pai N, Hubbard A, Riley LW, Colford JM. Diagnostic accuracy of
               nucleic acid amplification tests for tuberculous meningitis: a systematic review and
               meta-analysis. Lancet Infect Dis 2003;3:633-43.
               26. Rutjes AW, Reitsma JB, Di Nisio M, Smidt N, van Rijn JC, Bossuyt PM. Evidence of
               bias and variation in diagnostic accuracy studies. CMAJ 2006;174:469-76.
               27. Glas AS, Roos D, Deutekom M, Zwinderman AH, Bossuyt PM, Kurth KH. Tumor
               markers in the diagnosis of primary bladder cancer: a systematic review. J Urol
               2003;169:1975-82.
               28. Sackett DL, Haynes RB. The architecture of diagnostic research. In: Knottnerus JA,
               editor. The evidence base of clinical diagnosis. London: BMJ Books; 2002. p. 19-38.
               29. Burch J, Westwood M, Soares-Weiser K. Should data from case-control studies be
               included in systematic reviews alongside diagnostic cohort studies? [abstract]. In: 14th
               Cochrane Colloquium; 2006 Oct 23-26; Dublin, Ireland.
               30. Whiting P, Westwood M, Burke M, Sterne J, Glanville J. Systematic reviews of
               test accuracy should search a range of databases to identify primary studies. J Clin
               Epidemiol 2008;61:357-64.
               31. Cochrane Diagnostic Test Accuracy Working Group. Cochrane handbook for
               diagnostic test accuracy reviews [in press]: The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available
               from: http://srdta.cochrane.org/en/authors.html


                                                                                                      149



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 149                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:25
          Systematic Reviews


          32. Cochrane Diagnostic Test Accuracy Working Group. Cochrane Diagnostic Test
          Accuracy Working Group [internet]. Cochrane Collaboration; [cited 2008 18 Jul].
          Available from: http://srdta.cochrane.org/en/index.html
          33. Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) [internet]. Chichester:
          John Wiley & Sons Ltd; [cited 2008 05 Aug]. Available from: www.mrw.interscience.
          wiley.com/cochrane/cochrane_clcentral_articles_fs.html
          34. Leeflang MMG, Scholten RJPM, Rutjes AWS, Reitsma JB, Bossuyt PMM. Use of
          methodological search filters to identify diagnostic accuracy studies can lead to the
          omission of relevant studies. J Clin Epidemiol 2006;59:234-40.
          35. Higgins JPT, Green S, (editors). Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of
          Interventions. Version 5.0.0 [updated February 2008]: The Cochrane Collaboration;
          2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
          36. Ritchie G, Glanville J, Lefebvre C. Do published search filters to identify diagnostic
          test accuracy studies perform adequately? Health Info Libr J 2007;24:188-92.
          37. Mitchell R, Rinaldi F, Craig J. Performance of published search strategies for studies
          of diagnostic test accuracy (SDTAs) in Medline and Embase. Oxford: The Cochrane
          Collaboration; 2005. [cited 2006 14 Sept]. Available from: www.cochrane.org/colloquia/
          abstracts/melbourne/O-01.htm
          38. Smidt N, Deeks J, Moore T, editors. Chapter 4: Guide to the contents of a Cochrane
          review and protocol for diagnostic test accuracy. In: Cochrane Diagnostic Test Accuracy
          Working Group, editor. Cochrane handbook for diagnostic test accuracy reviews [in
          press]: The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available from: http://srdta.cochrane.org/
          en/authors.html
          39. Song F, Khan KS, Dinnes J, Sutton AJ. Asymmetric funnel plots and publication bias
          in meta analyses of diagnostic accuracy. Int J Epidemiol 2002;31:88-95.
          40. Deeks JJ, Macaskill P, Irwig L. The performance of tests of publication bias and other
          sample size effects in systematic reviews of diagnostic test accuracy was assessed. J
          Clin Epidemiol 2005;58:882-93.
          41. Bossuyt PM. The quality of reporting in diagnostic test research: getting better, still
          not optimal. Clin Chem 2004;50:465-6.
          42. Simel DL, Feussner JR, DeLong ER, Matchar DB. Intermediate, indeterminate, and
          uninterpretable diagnostic test results. Med Decis Making 1987;7:107-14.
          43. Whiting P, Gupta R, Burch J, Kleijnen J, Marson A, Forbes C. What to do with non 2
          x 2 data from a diagnostic systematic review? An example from a review on identifying
          the seizure focus in patients with epilepsy [abstract]. In: 12th Cochrane Colloquium;
          2004 Oct 2-6; Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
          44. Oosterhuis WP, Niessen RW, Bossuyt PM. The science of systematic reviewing
          studies of diagnostic tests. Clin Chem Lab Med 2000;38:577-88.
          45. Whiting P, Harbord R, Kleijnen J. No role for quality scores in systematic reviews of
          diagnostic accuracy studies. BMC Med Res Methodol 2005;5:19.




          150



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 150                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:25
                                                                     Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               46. Mulrow CD, Linn WD, Gaul MK, Pugh JA. Assessing quality of a diagnostic test
               evaluation. J Gen Intern Med 1989;4:288-95.
               47. Whiting P, Rutjes AW, Reitsma JB, Bossuyt PM, Kleijnen J. The development of
               QUADAS: a tool for the quality assessment of studies of diagnostic accuracy included in
               systematic reviews. BMC Med Res Methodol 2003;3:25.
               48. Westwood ME, Whiting PF, Kleijnen J. How does study quality affect the results of a
               diagnostic meta-analysis? BMC Med Res Methodol 2005;5:20.
               49. Whiting P, Rutjes AW, Dinnes J, Reitsma JB, Bossuyt PM, Kleijnen J. A systematic
               review finds that diagnostic reviews fail to incorporate quality despite available tools. J
               Clin Epidemiol 2005;58:1-12.
               50. Lacasse Y, Wong E, Guyatt GH, Cook DJ. Transthoracic needle aspiration biopsy for
               the diagnosis of localised pulmonary lesions: a meta-analysis. Thorax 1999;54:884-93.
               51. Berry E, Kelly S, Westwood ME, Davies LM, Gough MJ, Bamford JM, et al. The
               cost-effectiveness of magnetic resonance angiography for carotid artery stenosis and
               peripheral vascular disease: a systematic review. Health Technol Assess 2002;6:1-155.
               52. Chien PF, Khan KS, Ogston S, Owen P. The diagnostic accuracy of cervico-vaginal
               fetal fibronectin in predicting preterm delivery: an overview. Br J Obstet Gynaecol
               1997;104:436-44.
               53. Metlay JP, Kapoor WN, Fine MJ. Does this patient have community-acquired
               pneumonia? Diagnosing pneumonia by history and physical examination. JAMA
               1997;278:1440-5.
               54. Khan KS, Dinnes J, Kleijnen J. Systematic reviews to evaluate diagnostic tests. Eur J
               Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol 2001;95:6-11.
               55. Liddle J, Williamson M, Irwig L. Method for evaluating research and guideline
               evidence. Sydney, Australia: NSW Health Department; 1996.
               56. Bruns DE, Huth EJ, Magid E, Young DS. Toward a checklist for reporting of studies of
               diagnostic accuracy of medical tests. Clin Chem 2000;46:893-95.
               57. Whiting PF, Westwood ME, Rutjes AWS, Reitsma JB, Bossuyt PMM, Kleijnen J.
               Evaluation of QUADAS, a tool for the quality assessment of diagnostic accuracy studies.
               BMC Med Res Methodol 2006;6:9.
               58. Robinson PJ. Radiology’s Achilles’ heel: error and variation in the interpretation of
               the Rontgen image. Br J Radiol 1997;70:1085-98.
               59. Brealey S, Westwood M. Are you reading what we are reading? The effect of who
               interprets medical images on estimates of diagnostic test accuracy in systematic
               reviews. Br J Radiol 2007;80:674-7.
               60. Bossuyt PM, Reitsma JB, Bruns DE, Gatsonis CA, Glasziou PP, Irwig LM, et al.
               Towards complete and accurate reporting of studies of diagnostic accuracy: the STARD
               Initiative. Radiology 2003;226:24-28.
               61. Whiting PF, Sterne JA, Westwood ME, Bachmann LM, Harbord R, Egger M, et al.
               Graphical presentation of diagnostic information. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008;8:20.


                                                                                                        151



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 151                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:26
          Systematic Reviews


          62. Moses LE, Shapiro D, Littenberg B. Combining independent studies of a diagnostic
          test into a summary ROC curve: data-analytic approaches and some additional
          considerations. Stat Med 1993;12:1293-316.
          63. Rutter CA, Gatsonis CA. A hierarchical regression approach to meta-analysis of
          diagnostic test accuracy evaluations. Stat Med 2001;20:2865-84.
          64. Irwig L, Macaskill P, Glasziou P, Fahey M. Meta-analytic methods for diagnostic test
          accuracy. J Clin Epidemiol 1995;48:119-30.
          65. Williams GJ, Macaskill P, Chan SF, Karplus TE, Yung W, Hodson EM, et al.
          Comparative accuracy of renal duplex sonographic parameters in the diagnosis of renal
          artery stenosis: paired and unpaired analysis. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2007;188:798-811.
          66. Schulz KF, Altman DG, Moher D. Allocation concealment in clinical trials. JAMA
          2002;288:2406-7.
          67. Reitsma JB, Glas AS, Rutjes AW, Scholten RJ, Bossuyt PM, Zwinderman AH. Bivariate
          analysis of sensitivity and specificity produces informative summary measures in
          diagnostic reviews. J Clin Epidemiol 2005;58:982-90.
          68. Macaskill P. Empirical Bayes estimates generated in a hierarchical summary
          ROC analysis agreed closely with those of a full Bayesian analysis. J Clin Epidemiol
          2004;57:925-32.
          69. Harbord RM, Deeks JJ, Egger M, Whiting P, Sterne JA. A unification of models for
          meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy studies. Biostatistics 2006;1:1-21.
          70. Dinnes J, Deeks J, Kirby J, Roderick P. A methodological review of how heterogeneity
          has been examined in systematic reviews of diagnostic test accuracy. Health Technol
          Assess 2005;9:1-128.
          71. Zamora J, Abraira V, Muriel A, Khan K, Coomarasamy A. Meta-DiSc: a software for
          meta-analysis of test accuracy data. BMC Med Res Methodol 2006;6:31.
          72. Bachmann LM, Steurer J, ter Riet G. Simple presentation of test accuracy may lead
          to inflated disease probabilities [letter]. BMJ 2003;326:393.
          73. Puhan MA, Steurer J, Bachmann LM, ter Riet G. A randomized trial of ways to
          describe test accuracy: the effect on physicians’ post-test probability estimates. Ann
          Intern Med 2005;143:184-9.
          74. Steurer J, Fischer JE, Bachmann LM, Koller M, ter Riet G. Communicating accuracy
          of tests to general practitioners: a controlled study. BMJ 2002;324:824-6.
          75. Mallett S, Deeks JJ, Halligan S, Hopewell S, Cornelius V, Altman DG. Systematic
          reviews of diagnostic tests in cancer: review of methods and reporting. BMJ
          2006;333:413.
          76. Zwinderman AH, Bossuyt PM. We should not pool diagnostic likelihood ratios in
          systematic reviews. Stat Med 2008;27:687-97.
          77. Altman DG, Riley RD. Primer: an evidence-based approach to prognostic markers.
          Nat Clin Pract Oncol 2005;2:466-72.




          152



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 152                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:26
                                                                    Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               78. Keough-Ryan T, Hutchinson T, MacGibbon B, Senecal M. Studies of prognostic factors
               in end-stage renal disease: an epidemiological and statistical critique. Am J Kidney Dis
               2002;39:1196-205.
               79. Hayden JA, Cote P, Bombardier C. Evaluation of the quality of prognosis studies in
               systematic reviews. Ann Intern Med 2006;144:427-37.
               80. Kyzas PA, Loizou KT, Ioannidis JP. Selective reporting biases in cancer prognostic
               factor studies. J Natl Cancer Inst 2005;97:1043-55.
               81. Clarke M. Systematic review of reviews of risk factors for intracranial aneurysms.
               Neuroradiology 2008;50:653-64.
               82. Smith V, Devane D, Begley CM, Clarke M, Higgins S. A systematic review and quality
               assessment of systematic reviews of fetal fibronectin and transvaginal cervical length for
               predicting preterm birth. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol 2007;133:134-42.
               83. Moher D, Tetzlaff J, Tricco AC, Sampson M, Altman DG. Epidemiology and reporting
               characteristics of systematic reviews. PLoS Med 2007;4:e78.
               84. Nienhuis MB, Ottervanger JP, Bilo HJ, Dikkeschei BD, Zijlstra F. Prognostic value of
               troponin after elective percutaneous coronary intervention: a meta-analysis. Catheter
               Cardiovasc Interv 2008;71:318-24.
               85. Stuart-Harris R, Caldas C, Pinder SE, Pharoah P. Proliferation markers and survival
               in early breast cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 85 studies in 32,825
               patients. Breast 2008;17:323-34.
               86. Malats N, Bustos A, Nascimento CM, Fernandez F, Rivas M, Puente D, et al. P53
               as a prognostic marker for bladder cancer: a meta-analysis and review. Lancet Oncol
               2005;6:678-86.
               87. de Azambuja E, Cardoso F, de Castro G, Jr., Colozza M, Mano MS, Durbecq V, et al.
               Ki-67 as prognostic marker in early breast cancer: a meta-analysis of published studies
               involving 12,155 patients. Br J Cancer 2007;96:1504-13.
               88. Altman DG. Systematic reviews in health care: systematic reviews of evaluations of
               prognostic variables. BMJ 2001;323:224-8.
               89. Altman DG, Bland JM. Time to event (survival) data. BMJ 1998;317:468-9.
               90. Hudak PL, Cole DC, Haines AT. Understanding prognosis to improve rehabilitation:
               the example of lateral elbow pain. Arch Phys Med Rehabil 1996;77:586-93.
               91. Simon R, Altman DG. Statistical aspects of prognostic factor studies in oncology. Br
               J Cancer 1994;69:979-85.
               92. Shaheen NJ, Crosby MA, Bozymski EM, Sandler RS. Is there publication bias in the
               reporting of cancer risk in Barrett’s Esophagus? Gastroenterology 2000;119:333-8.
               93. Popat S, Matakidou A, Houlston RS. Thymidylate synthase expression and prognosis
               in colorectal cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:529-
               36.




                                                                                                        153



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 153                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:26
          Systematic Reviews


          94. Martin B, Paesmans M, Berghmans T, Branle F, Ghisdal L, Mascaux C, et al. Role
          of Bcl-2 as a prognostic factor for survival in lung cancer: a systematic review of the
          literature with meta-analysis. Br J Cancer 2003;89:55-64.
          95. Kyzas PA, Denaxa-Kyza D, Ioannidis JP. Almost all articles on cancer prognostic
          markers report statistically significant results. Eur J Cancer 2007;43:2559-79.
          96. Bentzen SM. Prognostic factor studies in oncology: osteosarcoma as a clinical
          example. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2001;49:513-8.
          97. Altman DG, Royston P. The cost of dichotomising continuous variables. BMJ
          2006;332:1080.
          98. Royston P, Altman DG, Sauerbrei W. Dichotomizing continuous predictors in multiple
          regression: a bad idea. Stat Med 2006;25:127-41.
          99. Altman DG, Lausen B, Sauerbrei W, Schumacher M. Dangers of using “optimal”
          cutpoints in the evaluation of prognostic factors. J Natl Cancer Inst 1994;86:829-35.
          100. Stewart LA, Clarke MJ. Practical methodology of meta-analyses (overviews) using
          updated individual patient data. Cochrane Working Group. Stat Med 1995;14:2057-79.
          101. Piedbois P, Buyse M. Meta-analyses based on abstracted data: a step in the right
          direction, but only a first step. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:3839-41.
          102. Altman DG, Trivella M, Pezzella F, Harris AL, Pastorino U. Systematic review of
          multiple studies of prognosis: the feasibility of obtaining individual patient data. In:
          Balakrishnan N, Auget J-L, Mesbah M, Molenberghs G, editors. Advances in statistical
          methods for the health sciences: applications to cancer and AIDS studies, genome
          sequence analysis, and survival analysis. Boston, MA: Birkhäuser; 2007. p. 3-18.
          103. Trivella M, Pezzella F, Pastorino U, Harris AL, Altman DG. Microvessel density as a
          prognostic factor in non-small-cell lung carcinoma: a meta-analysis of individual patient
          data. Lancet Oncol 2007;8:488-99.
          104. Fagard RH, Celis H, Thijs L, Staessen JA, Clement DL, De Buyzere ML, et al.
          Daytime and nighttime blood pressure as predictors of death and cause-specific
          cardiovascular events in hypertension. Hypertension 2008;51:55-61.
          105. Wilczynski NL, Haynes RB. Developing optimal search strategies for detecting
          clinically sound prognostic studies in MEDLINE: an analytic survey. BMC Med 2004;2:23.
          106. Wilczynski NL, Haynes RB. Optimal search strategies for detecting clinically sound
          prognostic studies in EMBASE: an analytic survey. J Am Med Inform Assoc 2005;12:481-
          5.
          107. Irvin E, Hayden JA. Developing and testing an optimal search strategy for
          identifying studies of prognosis [abstract]. In: 14th Cochrane Colloquium; 2006 Oct 23-
          26; Dublin, Ireland.
          108. Tierney JF, Stewart LA, Ghersi G, Burdett S, Sydes MR. Practical methods for
          incorporating summary time-to-event data into meta-analysis. Trials 2007;8:16.
          109. Trivella MH. Systematic reviews of prognostic factor studies [DPhil]. University of
          Oxford; 2005.


          154



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 154                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:26
                                                                    Systematic reviews of clinical tests


               110. Greenland S. Quality scores are useless and potentially misleading. Reply to “re: a
               critical look at some popular analytic methods”. Am J Epidemiol 1994;140:300-1.
               111. Jüni P, Altman DG, Egger M. Systematic reviews in health care: assessing the
               quality of controlled clinical trials. BMJ 2001;323:42-6.
               112. Steels E, Paesmans M, Berghmans T, Branle F, Lemaitre F, Mascaux C, et al. Role
               of p53 as a prognostic factor for survival in lung cancer: a systematic review of the
               literature with a meta-analysis. Eur Respir J 2001;18:705-19.
               113. Laupacis A, Wells G, Richardson WS, Tugwell P. Users’ guides to the medical
               literature. V. How to use an article about prognosis. Evidence-Based Medicine Working
               Group. JAMA 1994;272:234-7.
               114. Straus SE, McAlister FA. A clinician’s guide to journal articles about prognosis. ACP
               J Club 1999;130:A13-A15.
               115. Kernan WN, Feinstein AR, Brass LM. A methodological appraisal of research on
               prognosis after transient ischemic attacks. Stroke 1991;22:1108-16.
               116. Levine MN, Browman GP, Gent M, Roberts R, Goodyear M. When is a prognostic
               factor useful? A guide for the perplexed. J Clin Oncol 1991;9:348-56.
               117. Marras LC, Geerts WH, Perry JR. The risk of venous thromboembolism is increased
               throughout the course of malignant glioma: an evidence-based review. Cancer
               2000;89:640-6.
               118. Melnikow J, Nuovo J, Willan AR, Chan BK, Howell LP. Natural history of cervical
               squamous intraepithelial lesions: a meta-analysis. Obstet Gynecol 1998;92:727-35.
               119. Carson CA, Fine MJ, Smith MA, Weissfeld LA, Huber JT, Kapoor WN. Quality of
               published reports of the prognosis of community-acquired pneumonia. J Gen Intern Med
               1994;9:13-9.
               120. Sauerbrei W. Prognostic factors. Confusion caused by bad quality design, analysis
               and reporting of many studies. Adv Otorhinolaryngol 2005;62:184-200.
               121. McShane LM, Altman DG, Sauerbrei W, Taube SE, Gion M, Clark GM, et al.
               REporting recommendations for tumour MARKer prognostic studies (REMARK). Br J
               Cancer 2005;93:387-91.
               122. Tudur Smith C, Williamson PR, Marson AG. An overview of methods and empirical
               comparison of aggregate data and individual patient data results for investigating
               heterogeneity in meta-analysis of time-to-event outcomes. J Eval Clin Pract
               2005;11:468-78.
               123. Williamson PR, Tudur Smith C, Hutton JL, Marson AG. Aggregate data meta-
               analysis with time-to-event outcomes. Stat Med 2002;21:3337-51.
               124. Tudur Smith C, Williamson PR. A comparison of methods for fixed effects meta-
               analysis of individual patient data with time to event outcomes. Clin Trials 2007;4:621-
               30.
               125. Riley RD, Lambert PC, Staessen JA, Wang J, Gueyffier F, Thijs L, et al. Meta-
               analysis of continuous outcomes combining individual patient data and aggregate data.
               Stat Med 2008;27:1870-93.

                                                                                                      155



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 155                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:27
          Systematic Reviews


          126. Chêne G, Thompson SG. Methods for summarizing the risk associations of
          quantitative variables in epidemiologic studies in a consistent form. Am J Epidemiol
          1996;144:610-21.
          127. Hartemink N, Boshuizen HC, Nagelkerke NJ, Jacobs MA, Van Houwelingen
          HC. Combining risk estimates from observational studies with different exposure
          cutpoints: a meta-analysis on body mass index and diabetes type 2. Am J Epidemiol
          2006;163:1042-52.
          128. Shi JQ, Copas JB. Meta-analysis for trend estimation. Stat Med 2004;23:3-19.
          129. Key J, Hodgson S, Omar RZ, Jensen TK, Thompson SG, Boobis AR, et al. Meta-
          analysis of studies of alcohol and breast cancer with consideration of the methodological
          issues. Cancer Causes Control 2006;17:759-70.
          130. Wang TJ, Gona P, Larson MG, Tofler GH, Levy D, Newton-Cheh C, et al. Multiple
          biomarkers for the prediction of first major cardiovascular events and death. N Engl J
          Med 2006;355:2631-9.
          131. Wu YW, Colford JM, Jr. Chorioamnionitis as a risk factor for cerebral palsy: a meta-
          analysis. JAMA 2000;281:1417-24.
          132. Vickers AJ, Jang K, Sargent D, Lilja H, Kattan MW. Systematic review of statistical
          methods used in molecular marker studies in cancer. Cancer 2008;112:1862-8.
          133. Callagy GM, Webber MJ, Pharoah PD, Caldas C. Meta-analysis confirms BCL2 is an
          independent prognostic marker in breast cancer. BMC Cancer 2008;8:153.
          134. Parmar MK, Torri V, Stewart L. Extracting summary statistics to perform meta-
          analyses of the published literature for survival endpoints. Stat Med 1998;17:2815-34.
          135. Henry NL, Hayes DF. Uses and abuses of tumor markers in the diagnosis,
          monitoring, and treatment of primary and metastatic breast cancer. Oncologist
          2006;11:541-52.




          156



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 156                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:27
               CHAPTER 3
               SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS OF PUBLIC HEALTH
               INTERVENTIONS



               3.1 INTRODUCTION                                                          159
               3.2 THE REVIEW QUESTION, SCOPE AND PLANNING                               159
                   3.2.1 Formulating different types of question                         160
                   3.2.2 Considerations when applying PICOS                              160
                         3.2.2.1 Population                                              160
                         3.2.2.2 Complex packages of interventions (and comparators)     161
                         3.2.2.3 Outcomes, surrogates for health and sustainability      162
                         3.2.2.4 Context                                                 163
                         3.2.2.5 Study designs to assess effects, processes and
                                 implementation                                          163
               3.3 IDENTIFYING RESEARCH EVIDENCE                                         164
                   3.3.1 Database searching                                              164
                         3.3.1.1 Exploring beyond health-related databases               164
                         3.3.1.2 Dealing with poor terminology and indexing of studies   165
                   3.3.2 Acknowledging wider data sources and searching
                         techniques                                                      166
                   3.3.3 Managing document acquisition                                   166
               3.4 DATA EXTRACTION                                                       166
                   3.4.1 Incorporating diversity in the data extraction form             166
                   3.4.2 Dealing with inadequate information                             167
               3.5 QUALITY ASSESSMENT                                                  167
                   3.5.1 Addressing the quality of the intervention and implementation 167
                         3.5.1.1 Has the intervention been appropriately defined?      167
                         3.5.1.2 Was the intervention delivered as planned?            168
               3.6 DATA SYNTHESIS                                                        169
                   3.6.1 Developing an appropriate strategy                              169
                   3.6.2 Handling heterogeneity                                          169
                   3.6.3 Applicability                                                   169
               3.7 REPORTING                                                             170
               REFERENCES                                                                171




                                                                                         157



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 157                                                           8/1/09 09:29:27
          158



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 158   8/1/09 09:29:27
                                                      Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               3.1          INTRODUCTION

               This chapter provides an overview of issues relevant to systematic reviews of public
               health interventions. Public health is a broadly defined set of activities that aim to
               protect, promote, and restore the health of all people. Their success is invariably
               dependent on health, social, and economic contexts that have a wide reaching and
               sustainable impact on peoples’ lives. Public health interventions are diverse, including
               those that seek to address change at the individual level (for example, targeting specific
               attitude or behaviour change), and those that operate with structural (or policy-
               changing) intent to promote a wider population or community effect often focusing on
               the social, physical, economic, or legislative context.
               Evaluation of public health interventions is usually complex, as multiple interventions,
               outcomes, participants, settings and stakeholders are often necessary components.
               Because of the complexity, no single evaluation method is likely to be appropriate and
               a range of different study designs are used. A framework for the design and evaluation
               of complex interventions has been proposed which offers guidance on the various phases,
               including establishing the theoretical basis (mechanisms of action) for the intervention.1, 2
               A sound theoretical base is considered vital to the design of complex interventions and
               in explaining likely mechanisms for success.3, 4 However, in practice many interventions
               and evaluations lack explicit theoretical underpinning.
               The complexity of public health research may dictate a process that is far more iterative
               than in most other types of systematic review, although the use of a conceptual
               framework for guiding pathways within the systematic review process may offer a way
               forward (see Section 3.2, The review question, scope and planning). Because of the
               complexity, traditional criteria for producing systematic reviews have been criticised
               for being too tightly defined, and only partially fulfilling requirements for reviews
               addressing public health questions.5-9 As a result, existing guidelines are being updated
               and expanded.10
               The aim of this chapter is to identify key issues and challenges specifically related to
               reviews of public health interventions which researchers need to consider in addition
               to the core principles presented in Chapter 1. A number of these key issues recur
               throughout the systematic review process, but to avoid repetition are only discussed
               in Section 3.2 The review question, scope and planning. As with all types of systematic
               review, the need to ensure a systematic approach remains paramount, with focus on
               critical thought, transparency, and explicitness about methods.


               3.2          THE REVIEW QUESTION, SCOPE AND PLANNING

               Determining the scope of the review and the subsequent question(s) to be addressed
               is a critical stage in the review process as decisions made in the early stages will
               determine both the protocol (see Chapter 1) and the subsequent review. A carefully
               selected advisory group with a range of experiences will help to ensure the questions
               addressed are those of importance to decision-makers. For reviews of public health
               interventions, authors might want to consider including practitioners, policy-makers
               (local or national), funders, and potential recipients or users of services.



                                                                                                         159



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 159                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:28
          Systematic Reviews


          The development and use of a conceptual framework to guide the review process may
          offer a useful starting point. Although there are relatively few examples reported in the
          literature, one approach that offers particular promise is that developed by the Task
          Force on Community Preventive Services based in the USA.11 For each systematic review
          undertaken, the Task Force develop a logic framework, which is essentially a diagram
          mapping the hypothesised causal relationships between determinants (environmental,
          social, biological) and outcomes. The framework is then used to identify links between
          determinants, outcomes, possible interventions and strategic points to intervene.
          Once mapped in this way decisions can be made about which interventions to include.
          The approach has been used to review interventions ranging from early childhood
          development programmes such as Head Start12 to affordable family housing.13
          Other approaches which researchers may find useful are Realist synthesis14 and
          The Theory of Change.15 Realist synthesis, originally designed to work with complex
          social interventions, outlines the importance of using theory to drive the synthesis of
          evidence. The Theory of Change is currently used to guide health and social reform
          programmes in the UK, and is an approach to designing, implementing and evaluating
          complex interventions, involving multiple stakeholders who work together to map out
          the pathway for change.


          3.2.1        Formulating different types of question

          Public health questions are usually broad and multi-faceted, often seeking to address
          wide policy-based enquiries, where a range of specific interventions exist; examples
          being the promotion of walking16 and the reorganisation of shift-work.17 Specific
          examples of broad questions include ‘what is the evidence that national programmes of
          urban regeneration improve health?’18 and ‘which health promotion interventions reduce
          the risk of coronary heart disease in the general population?’19
          Broad questions can be split to provide a more narrowly focussed enquiry, where
          immediate decisions of policy relevance are often required.5 Examples of narrowly
          focused questions include ‘what are the effects of water fluoridation on the incidence of
          caries?’20 and ‘does over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapy increase abstinence
          rates?’21


          3.2.2        Considerations when applying PICOS

          The application of PICOS (Population, Interventions, Comparisons, Outcomes, Study
          Design, Chapter 1, Section 1.2 The review protocol) to the review question is relevant to
          reviews in public health, but adaptation may be required. For example, the importance
          of context within which the intervention is delivered has prompted the proposed
          inclusion of an additional C in the acronym (PICOCS).22


          3.2.2.1 Population

          The population of interest is often represented by groups of people, or entire
          communities, such as young people in schools, users of Healthy Living Centres or


          160



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 160                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:28
                                                     Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               particular geographical regions. This is in contrast to reviews of clinical topics where
               individuals are usually the focus, for example patients undergoing coronary artery
               bypass graft surgery or adults diagnosed with moderate to severe psoriasis.
               Detail about participants is often lacking.22 Information about initial and final study
               populations is not always easy to distinguish, and studies often fail to report levels of
               engagement, along with the characteristics of those that do and do not participate in
               the interventions of interest.
               Researchers may be especially interested in the effects of interventions on
               disadvantaged groups in order to investigate the potential for reducing inequalities (see
               Section 3.2.2.4 Context).


               3.2.2.2 Complex packages of interventions (and comparators)

               Public health interventions are often characterised as a package of components, for
               example, the inclusion of diet, exercise, and counselling in weight loss programmes or
               education, community events, and access to nicotine replacement therapy to promote
               smoking cessation. This type of intervention is often referred to as ‘complex’, due to the
               fact that the constituent parts may act both independently and inter-dependently,1, 2 and
               defining the ‘active ingredient’ can be less straightforward than in other topic areas.
               Where research questions apply specifically to interventions that are part of a multi-
               component package, it is important to decide on the usefulness of separating the
               component parts for evaluation. To do so may mean that the essence of the intervention
               is lost.23
               The use of theory in guiding the development of complex interventions is considered
               good practice, due to its potential to predict success and also to explain failure. Theories
               can explain behaviour and behaviour change at the individual level such as the Theory
               of Planned Behaviour24-26 and the Health Belief Model.27 Theory can also explain change
               at the organisational or community level. Researchers might decide to only include
               interventions based on one particular theory, as in a review that focused on Stages
               of Change,28 or to include interventions based on different theories and record their
               theoretical underpinning as part of the description of the intervention, as in a review of
               HIV prevention.29 Theory can also be used to group interventions and explore potential
               differences in effect.
               As with populations, interventions (and comparators) are often poorly described. A
               variety of possible interpretations and terminology is commonplace in the literature
               (see later in Section 3.3 Identifying research evidence). For example, in a systematic
               review of workplace exercise interventions, the words exercise and physical activity
               were interpreted differently by researchers and practitioners in terms of the activity
               being promoted, and there was no standardisation of use in the literature.30 With
               the help of the advisory group (see Chapter 1), researchers will need to spend
               time agreeing definitions for the interventions of interest. How the intervention is
               defined (e.g. in terms of intensity, frequency, duration), delivered, and whether it is
               sustainable are important indicators in determining effectiveness and these aspects
               should be considered at the protocol development stage and again later during quality
               assessment.



                                                                                                          161



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 161                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:28
          Systematic Reviews


          It is also important to specify comparators, which might be no intervention, standard
          practice (or care) or another intervention. Choice of comparator is important, as it will
          have implications for the interpretation of results.
          When framing the review question it may be appropriate to consider broad comparisons,
          for example the effectiveness of any community intervention for preventing the uptake
          of smoking versus no intervention, or the effectiveness of any community intervention
          versus any single component intervention,31 or all programmes aimed at preventing and
          treating childhood obesity.32 This represents a departure from the often well-defined
          interventions specified in questions about the effects of clinical interventions such as
          efalizumab for the treatment of psoriasis.


          3.2.2.3 Outcomes, surrogates for health and sustainability

          Public health interventions often have a range of impacts on those receiving them,
          some of which will be considered more important than others. Questions about which
          outcomes to prioritise can be usefully discussed with the advisory group and often it will
          be necessary to assess a number of different outcomes (or groups of outcomes). In a
          review focusing on the prevention of smoking in young people,31 outcomes included the
          number of cigarettes purchased, membership of anti-smoking clubs, media reach, and
          level of implementation or exposure to each component of the intervention. Examining
          why and how the intervention works will require the development of questions
          addressing process or implementation.22, 33, 34 (See Section 3.5 Quality assessment,
          and Chapter 6). These questions might refer to critical success factors including
          communication, infrastructure, staff behaviour, and organisational flexibility. As in other
          types of review, unintended outcomes should also be considered. For example, smoking
          cessation interventions might reduce the number of cigarettes smoked, but contribute
          to weight gain.
          Although public health interventions have the potential to improve population
          health overall, improvements (in terms of the total number who benefit from the
          intervention) may mask differences between groups. For example a review of healthy
          eating interventions in schoolchildren found differences between males and females
          in knowledge and consumption of healthy foods.35 It is possible that a strategy that
          improves population health, might actually widen inequalities between social groups if
          benefits are concentrated among the better off.36 Researchers might want to consider
          investigating differential outcomes according to varying levels of disadvantage, as
          in a recent review of school feeding programmes,37 or programmes that focus solely
          on disadvantaged populations (for example, the current UK Sure Start initiative).
          Information on differential outcomes is vital to the development of policy guidance, but
          is often ignored.
          One set of criteria for measuring disadvantage is PROGRESS, which stands for place of
          residence, race/ethnicity, occupation, gender, religion, education, socioeconomic status
          and social capital.38 These criteria have been used in a small number of systematic
          reviews, including one on population tobacco control interventions,39 and a modified and
          extended version (including items on disability, sexual orientation, and age) in a review
          of school-based cognitive behavioural therapy programmes for preventing/reducing
          depression.40, 41 The feasibility, usability and usefulness of the PROGRESS criteria


          162



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 162                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:28
                                                    Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               are being further investigated.42 The Cochrane Health Equity Field and The Campbell
               Equity Methods Group have identified other examples of equity relevant reviews, which
               may be of interest to researchers considering investigating the differential impact of
               interventions.42
               Given that many public health interventions involve long-term investment and have
               long-term outcomes, follow-up assessment is important. Indeed, the degree to which
               the intervention and its outcomes are sustainable may ultimately tip the balance
               for decision-makers. Despite this, long-term follow-up is often lacking or simply not
               feasible. As a consequence, there may be no other option than to work with interim or
               surrogate outcomes, for example, maximum oxygen uptake (VO2 Max) as an indicator
               of cardiovascular health; or measures of attitude and intention as markers for behaviour
               change). However, researchers should pay particular attention to the validity and
               reliability of such measures, and to the extent to which they can actually predict the
               primary outcome(s) of interest.43


               3.2.2.4 Context

               Consideration of the context (e.g. social and political, environmental, and seasonal)6, 44
               in which the intervention is introduced is important. If an intervention is found to be
               effective it is useful to be able to assess whether context was a contributor. However,
               boundaries between a particular intervention and the context in which it is delivered are
               not always easy to identify.


               3.2.2.5 Study designs to assess effects, processes and implementation

               The choice of study design should be guided by the review question and the needs of
               the end users. The traditional hierarchy of evidence discussed in Chapter 1, Sections
               1.2 The review protocol and 1.3.4. Quality Assessment is relevant to reviews of public
               health.
               Given the greater diversity in conditions and settings, planning to evaluate the
               effectiveness of public health interventions requires consideration of the influences that
               might impact upon the success of the intervention. Public health questions often require
               consolidation of efficacy (does the intervention work under ideal conditions?) and
               effectiveness (does the intervention work in everyday life?) criteria in the form of ‘does
               the intervention work’, in conjunction with ‘when, why, and how does it work’ (taking
               account of differences in context, setting or delivery formats) and for ‘whom does it
               work’ (with exploration of differential effects amongst groups).
               The appropriateness of different study designs for answering a wide range of questions
               has been summarised.22 Although the RCT is considered to be the gold standard in
               establishing whether the intervention works, there are likely to be fewer conducted in
               public health, especially where policy questions are being addressed and the limitations
               of sole reliance on data from RCTs has been discussed.45 Restricting reviews to RCTs
               and controlled trials may also skew the findings towards particular types of intervention.
               For example a review of interventions promoting a population shift from using cars
               to walking or cycling found that RCTs had been used to evaluate only two types of



                                                                                                     163



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 163                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:29
          Systematic Reviews


          intervention. Evidence about transport service developments, financial incentives and
          population wide health promotion activities would have been missed, if other types of
          study design had been excluded.46
          The cluster randomised trial design47 offers promise, however, methodological difficulties
          with this design (such as the need for a sufficient number of randomised units to ensure
          even distribution of confounders) suggest that further developments may be required.
          Others have commented on the difficulties of low power, secular trends and small effect
          sizes in community-based designs.48 However, a small effect at the community level
          may have more practical significance than an effect of comparable size at the individual
          level.47 Therefore, small measures of change should not routinely be ignored.
          Other designs such as before-and-after, interrupted time series and uncontrolled are
          often used and should be considered. Regression-discontinuity and matched controlled
          designs have also been proposed.49
          The inclusion of other types of study, such as qualitative research and surveys
          should also be considered as they can help to shape questions of importance to end
          users, help to understand the mechanisms behind effectiveness or ineffectiveness,
          contribute to understanding heterogeneous results, identify factors that impact on the
          implementation of an intervention, describe the experience of people receiving the
          interventions, and provide participants’ subjective evaluations of outcomes. Examples
          of systematic reviews in public health which have considered a range of evidence in
          the context of evaluating effectiveness include those focussing on healthy eating,35, 50
          HIV health promotion,51 and breastfeeding.52 The inclusion of qualitative evidence is
          discussed in Chapter 6.
          The concept of using the best available evidence,22, 53 similar to the idea of best evidence
          synthesis,54 where the desire to include the ‘best’ evidence does not stand in the way
          of using the best available evidence, may be the preferred strategy. However, it is
          important to note that the choice of study designs will impact on the level of complexity
          in subsequent stages of the review, including searching, quality assessment, and
          especially synthesis.


          3.3          IDENTIFYING RESEARCH EVIDENCE

          3.3.1        Database searching

          3.3.1.1 Exploring beyond health-related databases

          Reviews of public health interventions tend to cut across a number of topic and
          disciplinary areas, meaning that relevant studies are scattered widely and are unlikely
          to be identified if only health databases are searched. Databases should be selected
          according to the question(s) being addressed. In a review of water fluoridation20 a
          wide range of databases were searched, including EI Compendex (Engineering Index),
          PAIS (Public Affairs Information Service), Water Resources Abstracts, and Agricola
          (Agriculture Online access). Other examples of specialist (non-health) databases are
          those relating to housing or architecture, such as ICONDA, Waternet, and Enviroline;
          to modes of transport such as the TRANSPORT database; to education, such as ERIC;


          164



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 164                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:29
                                                    Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               and to geographical data, such as GEOBASE. In an analysis of the sources of studies
               for a systematic review of interventions to promote walking and cycling, only four of
               69 relevant studies were identified from a health database with a significant proportion
               identified by searching the TRANSPORT database.55
               Many of the core databases used in medicine are readily available via the Internet,
               at university and college libraries, or as a result of national agreements between the
               NHS and database suppliers. Details of how and where to identify relevant databases
               are given in Chapter 1, Section 1.3.1 Identifying research evidence for systematic
               reviews. Access to some specialist databases such as SportDiscus may be restricted to
               subscribers or organisational members. Researchers need to consider carefully which
               databases are appropriate for identifying studies relevant to their specified question,
               along with any cost implications.


               3.3.1.2 Dealing with poor terminology and indexing of studies

               In the databases that cover medicine, namely MEDLINE and EMBASE, there are
               structured and well-recognised thesauri (MeSH and EMTREE) that help to create a
               focused search strategy. The use of thesaurus terms to index an international literature
               can compensate for the use of different terms across countries and for variations in
               spelling. Although the settings of public health interventions are important, for example
               ‘community-based’ or ‘neighbourhood level’ there are no MeSH terms for these specific
               concepts so the more general heading ‘residence characteristics’ has to be used.56
               To address this problem the UK Health Development Agency (now part of NICE) and
               England’s Public Health Observatories (PHO’s) have developed a unified Public Health
               Language (PHL) to facilitate interoperability. The thesaurus (available from the Public
               Health Language website (www.nphl.nhs.uk/uk/default.aspx)) provides a detailed set of
               terms for indexing documents and records related to public health.
               Searching for studies will be greatly enhanced when the use of this language becomes
               more widespread and especially when it is mapped to MeSH. While the PHL is still being
               developed, differences in terminology need to be compensated for by using free text
               terms and synonyms when constructing strategies.
               Many of the available databases are poorly indexed or abstracted, and some, such as
               Midwifery & Infant Care, and PAIS International, do not have a thesaurus. This means
               there is a greater reliance on using free text terms, which impacts on the sensitivity and
               specificity of the search.
               The greater the number of databases searched the more likely it becomes that different
               search interfaces will need to be used, with strategies being translated to take account
               of differing search operators (e.g. the symbols used to indicate truncation of search
               terms or the adjacency of search terms).
               Smaller databases or web-based databases do not routinely allow sophisticated
               searches to be undertaken so broad strategies need to be used to ensure completeness.
               Again, this results in a lower precision rate for the search.




                                                                                                     165



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 165                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:29
          Systematic Reviews


          3.3.2        Acknowledging wider data sources and searching techniques

          Extensive database searching is only part of the solution to identifying relevant
          research. Studies may appear as books, book chapters, working papers, policy
          documents or departmental reports, and traditional database searching may not be
          sufficient to identify these sources. To identify studies published in these formats it is
          important to supplement database searches with Internet searching, scanning relevant
          organisational websites (for example, in the UK The Centre for Public Health Excellence,
          NICE; the EPPI-Centre, University of London; CRD, University of York), contacting
          experts in the field, and reference checking to minimize publication bias.57 Searching
          grey literature sources for unpublished material is a vital part of any search strategy.
          Handsearching selected journals is helpful in keeping abreast of literature not yet loaded
          on electronic databases. A technique known as snowballing (citation tracking using the
          citation databases Science Citation Index, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Arts and
          Humanities Citation Index) might also be considered.


          3.3.3        Managing document acquisition

          Retrieval of a large number of articles is likely and this has consequences in terms
          of resources. For example, a review of tobacco control interventions58 identified over
          17,000 citations of potential relevance. It may be difficult to acquire the identified
          studies, especially if published as reports or working papers. Individuals and
          organisations often need to be contacted, so the whole process may take longer than
          when accessing journal publications.


          3.4          DATA EXTRACTION

          3.4.1        Incorporating diversity in the data extraction form

          As indicated in Chapter 1, Section 1.3.3 Data Extraction, the data extraction form
          should always be designed in line with the research protocol and with the desired output
          in mind. In general, the form should follow the broad format according to PICOCS,
          taking account of any necessary adaptations. Given the potential variety and extent
          of information to be extracted, the design, content and completion of data extraction
          forms may be more time consuming than in most other types of review. For example,
          more information may be required on intervention characteristics including theoretical
          underpinning. It is also important to identify where theoretical information is absent
          from the primary studies. It is likely that all data on differential effects will be relevant,
          so adequate detail relating to the population is important.
          Examples of potentially relevant data extraction forms are presented in Box 3.1. Whilst
          these can provide a foundation for data extraction, forms should always be developed
          according to the requirements of the individual review.




          166



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 166                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:29
                                                      Systematic reviews of public health interventions




                  Box 3.1: Data extraction forms

                  •     A tool for data collection relating to studies of community prevention services59
                  •     The Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Review Group
                        (EPOC) data collection checklist (including quality assessment for multiple
                        study designs)60
                  •     The Cochrane Non Randomised Studies Methods Group (NRSMG) checklist
                        (to include data extraction and quality assessment of nonrandomised studies
                        www.cochrane.dk/nrsmg/guidelines.html)
                  •     EPPI-Centre data extraction and quality assessment guidelines for health
                        promotion outcome and process evaluations61
                  •     The RE-AIM framework to document data on intervention reach, efficacy,
                        adoption, implementation and maintenance62



               3.4.2        Dealing with inadequate information

               Given the potential reporting problems in many primary studies, researchers may need
               to allow extra time (at the study selection and/or data extraction stage) to make contact
               with study authors. It is important to record the potential impact of missing data for
               later discussion on review findings and a designated area of the form is useful for this
               purpose.


               3.5          QUALITY ASSESSMENT

               3.5.1        Addressing the quality of the intervention and implementation

               The importance of intervention and implementation quality in relation to systematic
               reviews of complex interventions is raised in Chapter 1, Section 1.3.4 Quality
               Assessment, and the discussion is expanded here. A distinction should also be made
               between the quality of the intervention and quality of the evaluation, the latter being
               extensively covered in Chapter 1 and therefore not discussed further here.
               The quality of an intervention can be conceptualised as having two main aspects
               (i) whether the intervention has been appropriately defined, and (ii) whether the
               intervention was delivered as planned (integrity, or fidelity of the intervention).


               3.5.1.1 Has the intervention been appropriately defined?

               Theoretical underpinning, use of qualitative research and exploratory studies are
               important in developing a fully defined intervention. This includes outlining the most
               likely mechanism of action, and the most appropriate duration and timing of the
               intervention.2, 63 Developing the intervention from a needs assessment or piloting


                                                                                                        167



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 167                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:30
          Systematic Reviews


          exercise is also likely to be integral to effectiveness.64 However, in reality, complex
          interventions are not always developed in this way.
          While this aspect of intervention quality is relevant to the appraisal of a primary study,
          and the subsequent synthesis of studies, it is often not formally assessed. A checklist
          is available to aid researchers with this task, although further developments have been
          recommended.65 Where there is evidence that aspects of an intervention should be
          administered in a particular way, it is important that this is assessed systematically.
          As a minimum, this should include the extraction of appropriate information describing
          the intervention and this information should be considered in the synthesis and
          interpretation as a possible source of heterogeneity.


          3.5.1.2 Was the intervention delivered as planned?

          The integrity or fidelity of an intervention refers to the extent to which the intervention
          has been delivered (or implemented) as planned.66 If an intervention is not delivered
          as planned a positive effect is less likely to be found. It is therefore important to
          distinguish between a failure of implementation and an ineffective intervention.5, 6
          It has been argued that five dimensions – adherence, exposure, quality of delivery,
          participant responsiveness and programme differentiation – need to be measured
          to provide a comprehensive picture of integrity/fidelity.66 In practice however, these
          aspects are often not assessed and/or reported in primary studies,6, 33, 66, 67 and this has
          led to a recommendation for their inclusion in reporting statements such as CONSORT
          and TREND.68 A new conceptual framework has also recently been developed to aid
          understanding of the concept and for measuring the process.69
          There are few assessment tools available for use in systematic reviews that include
          items on intervention integrity. However, one such tool recommended by The Cochrane
          Public Health Review Group10 is the Effective Public Health Practice Project Quality
          Assessment Tool for Quantitative Studies (www.city.hamilton.on.ca/PHCS/EPHPP). The
          Oxford Implementation Index is a new tool to help researchers extract, appraise and
          use implementation data in systematic reviews. Its applicability to Cochrane reviews of
          HIV prevention and psychosocial interventions has been demonstrated.70
          Consideration of whether an intervention was implemented as planned overlaps
          with the concept of process evaluation, though the latter covers a wider range of
          activities. Process evaluation (within trials) has been described as an exploration of
          the implementation, receipt, and setting of an intervention, and helps to interpret the
          outcome results.33 It is of particular relevance to public health interventions though it
          is often not conducted in a formalised way.6 The methodology for process evaluations
          embedded within RCTs requires further development,33 but as knowledge develops it is
          likely to impact on how such studies are assessed in systematic reviews.




          168



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 168                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:30
                                                    Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               3.6          DATA SYNTHESIS

               3.6.1        Developing an appropriate strategy

               The choice of synthesis method will ultimately depend on the question(s) addressed
               and the type of data included. Researchers should refer to Chapter 1, Section 1.3.5
               Data synthesis, for general guidance on data synthesis. Where the review question
               relates to whether interventions work in different groups, and centres around
               dimensions of inequality such as race or ethnic origin, occupation, education, gender
               and socioeconomic status, synthesis poses particular challenges. Researchers might
               want to consider a method71 devised for use in a review of population level tobacco
               control interventions on social inequalities in smoking.39 The method combines aspects
               of the graphical directness of a forest plot (see Chapter 1, Section 1.3.5.2 Quantitative
               synthesis of comparative studies) with a narrative account of what can be learned from
               a group of very diverse studies. The results from each category of intervention are
               weighted according to certain methodological criteria and plotted on a matrix (harvest
               plot). The harvest plot allows best use of all available evidence and provides a visual
               display, which aids the process of synthesis and the assimilation of findings.71
               In addition a comprehensive review of approaches to synthesis is available which
               outlines a range of options, including methods for qualitative evidence, for quantitative
               data and for both types of evidence. Readers interested in comparing the options
               available are advised to consult this text.72


               3.6.2        Handling heterogeneity

               Careful judgement is needed when integrating different types of evidence.73 Indeed,
               differences in study design, participants, context, and in processes/methods of
               implementation, theoretical underpinnings, outcomes and outcome measures are
               major contributions to the complexity, and thus heterogeneity at the synthesis
               stage.5 Exploring heterogeneity may be more complex in public health reviews due
               to mechanisms and interactions being less well developed and not always possible to
               determine a priori.5 Subgroup analysis can aid the evaluation of differential impacts
               across groups and in assessing inequalities. Importantly, subgroup analysis can also
               be used to explore interactions between effects and the quality of the intervention.74
               Available techniques are described in Chapter 1, Section 1.3.5.2 Quantitative synthesis
               of comparative studies.


               3.6.3        Applicability

               The extent to which public health interventions are expected to work in other contexts
               can be less predictable than for some clinical interventions. Therefore, it is usually
               necessary to examine the details of process and context (for example, the mechanics
               of the intervention and implementation process in relation to the study population,
               location, and wider environmental influences) before extrapolating the findings from
               individual studies and any subsequent synthesis.6 Summarising the results of several
               studies carried out in different settings and with different populations is in itself a


                                                                                                     169



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 169                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:30
          Systematic Reviews


          test of the applicability of findings.75 If study findings are similar across a range of
          circumstances then confidence that the findings are transferable is increased. Where
          effects vary according to setting, population or intervention characteristics, this
          information is useful for understanding in which circumstances the evidence is likely
          to be applicable. Although not frequently reported in systematic reviews, applicability
          (often referred to as external validity or generalisability) is included in some checklists.76
          A tool for assessing applicability and transferability (another term with similar meaning)
          has been proposed.77


          3.7          REPORTING

          The guidance for report writing discussed in Chapter 1, Section 1.3.6 Report writing,
          is relevant to reviews of public health. However, given the diversity of public health
          research, and its concern with what works, for whom, why, when, and at what cost,
          there are likely to be additional reporting requirements, in particular factors impacting
          on applicability. These include context, development and rationale, implementation
          process, and sustainability.



              Summary: Systematic reviews of public health interventions

              •     Public health interventions represent a set of activities aiming to protect,
                    promote, and restore the health of all people.
              •     The evaluation of public health interventions is usually complex.
              •     Traditional criteria for producing systematic reviews only partially fulfil the
                    requirements for public health interventions.
              •     Unique challenges to reviewing in this topic area require consideration. These
                    include:
                    • Applying an extended version of PICOS, with attention to context and to
                         equity and inequalities
                    • Embracing a wider range of data sources and searching techniques
                    • Attention to quality assessment beyond traditional measures of
                         methodological adequacy
                    • Dealing with diverse data and choosing appropriate methods of synthesis
                    • Reporting with additional focus on applicability




          170



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 170                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:31
                                                     Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               REFERENCES

               1. Craig P, Dieppe P, Macintyre S, Michie S, Nazareth I, Petticrew M, et al. Developing
               and evaluating complex interventions: the new Medical Research Council guidance. BMJ
               2008;337:a1655.
               2. Craig P, Dieppe P, Macintyre S, Michie S, Nazareth I, Petticrew M, et al. Developing
               and evaluating complex interventions: new guidance. London: Medical Research
               Council; 2008. Available from: www.mrc.ac.uk/Utilities/Documentrecord/index.
               htm?d=MRC004871
               3. Tones K, Green J. Health promotion: planning and strategies. London: SAGE
               Publications Ltd; 2004.
               4. Crosby RA, Kegler MC, DiClemente RJ. Understanding and applying theory in health
               promotion practice and research. In: DiClemente RJ, Crosby RA, Kegler MC, editors.
               Emerging theories in health promotion practice and research: strategies for public
               health. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass; 2002. p. 1-15.
               5. Jackson N, Waters E, for the Guidelines for Systematic Reviews of Health Promotion
               and Public Health Interventions Taskforce. Guidelines for systematic reviews of health
               promotion and public health interventions. Version 1.2. Australia: Deakin University;
               2005.
               6. Rychetnik L, Frommer M, Hawe P, Shiell A. Criteria for evaluating evidence on public
               health interventions. J Epidemiol Community Health 2002;56:119-27.
               7. Boaz A, Ashby D, Denyer D, Egan M, Harden A, Jones DR, et al. A multitude of
               syntheses: a comparison of five approaches from diverse policy fields. Evidence & Policy
               2006;2:479-502.
               8. Jackson N, Waters E. Criteria for the systematic review of health promotion and
               public health interventions. Health Promot Int 2005;20:367-74.
               9. Waters E, Doyle J, Jackson N, Howes F, Brunton G, Oakley A. Evaluating the
               effectiveness of public health interventions: the role and activities of the Cochrane
               Collaboration. J Epidemiol Community Health 2006;60:285-9.
               10. Armstrong R, Waters E, Doyle J, editors. Chapter 21: Reviews in health promotion
               and public health In: Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane Handbook for Systematic
               Reviews of Interventions Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane
               Collaboration; 2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
               11. Briss PA, Zaza S, Pappaioanou M, Fielding J, Wright-De Agüero L, Truman BI, et al.
               Developing an evidence-based guide to community preventive services--methods. The
               Task Force on Community Preventive Services. Am J Prev Med 2000;18:35-43.
               12. Anderson LM, Shinn C, Fullilove MT, Scrimsha SC, Fielding JE, Normand J, et al. The
               effectiveness of early childhood development programs. A systematic review. Am J Prev
               Med 2003;24:32-46.
               13. Anderson LM, Charles JS, Fullilove MT, Scrimshaw SC, Fielding JE, Normand J, et al.
               Providing affordable family housing and reducing residential segregation by income. A
               systematic review. Am J Prev Med 2003;24:47-67.


                                                                                                       171



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 171                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:31
          Systematic Reviews


          14. Pawson R, Greenhalgh T, Harvey G, Walshe K. Realist review: a new method of
          systematic review designed for complex policy interventions. J Health Serv Res Policy
          2005;10 Suppl 1:21-34.
          15. Coote A, Allen J, Woodhead D. Finding out what works: understanding complex,
          community-based initiatives. London: King’s Fund; 2004.
          16. Ogilvie D, Foster CE, Rothnie H, Cavill N, Hamilton V, Fitzsimons CF, et al.
          Interventions to promote walking: systematic review. BMJ 2007;334:1204-13.
          17. Bambra C, Petticrew M, Whitehead M, Akers J, Sowden A. Shifting schedules: the
          health effects of reorganising shift work. Am J Prev Med 2008;34:427-34.
          18. Thomson H, Atkinson R, Petticrew M, Kearns A. Do urban regeneration programmes
          improve public health and reduce health inequalities? A synthesis of the evidence from
          UK policy and practice (1980–2004). J Epidemiol Community Health 2006;60:108-15.
          19. Peersman G, Oliver S, Oakley A. Systematic reviews of effectiveness. In: Oliver S,
          Peersman G, editors. Using research for effective health promotion. Buckingham: Open
          University Press; 2001. p. 96-108.
          20. NHS Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. A systematic review of public water
          fluoridation. CRD Report 18. York: University of York; 2000.
          21. Hughes JR, Shiffman S, Callas P, Zhang J. A meta-analysis of the efficacy of over-
          the-counter nicotine replacement. Tob Control 2003;12:21-7.
          22. Petticrew M, Roberts H. Systematic reviews in the social sciences: a practical guide.
          Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing; 2006.
          23. Hawe P, Shiell A, Riley T. Complex interventions: how “out of control” can a
          randomised controlled trial be? BMJ 2004;328:1561-3.
          24. Ajzen I. From intentions to action: a theory of planned behavior. In: Kuhl J,
          Baeckman J, editors. Action control: from cognition to behaviours. New York, NY:
          Springer; 1985.
          25. Ajzen I. Attitudes, personality and behavior. Milton Keynes: Open University Press;
          1988.
          26. Ajzen I. The theory of planned behavior. Organ Behav Hum Decis Process
          1991;50:179-211.
          27. Becker MH. The health belief model and personal health behavior. Health Educ
          Monogr 1974;2:324–508.
          28. Riemsma RP, Pattenden J, Bridle C, Sowden AJ, Mather L, Watt IS, et al. Systematic
          review of the effectiveness of stage based interventions to promote smoking cessation.
          BMJ 2003;326:1175-7.
          29. Underhill K, Operario D, Montgomery P. Abstinence-only programs for HIV infection
          prevention in high-income countries. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2007,
          Issue 4. Art. No.: CD005421. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005421.pub2.
          30. Dalton JE. Exploring the potential effectiveness of workplace exercise and physical
          activity interventions [PhD thesis]. York: University of York; 2003.


          172



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 172                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:31
                                                    Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               31. Sowden A, Stead L. Community interventions for preventing smoking in young
               people. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2003, Issue 1. Art. No.: CD001291.
               DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001291.
               32. Flynn MA, McNeil DA, Maloff B, Mutasingwa D, Wu M, Ford C, et al. Reducing obesity
               and related chronic disease risk in children and youth: a synthesis of evidence with ‘best
               practice’ recommendations. Obes Rev 2006;7 Suppl 7-66.
               33. Oakley A, Strange V, Bonnell C, Allen E, Stephenson J, RIPPLE Study Team. Process
               evaluation in randomised controlled trials of complex interventions. BMJ 2006;332:413-
               6.
               34. Roen K, Arai L, Roberts H, Popay J. Extending systematic reviews to include
               evidence on implementation: methodological work on a review of community-based
               initiatives to prevent injuries. Soc Sci Med 2006;63:1060-71.
               35. Shepherd J, Harden A, Rees R, Brunton G, Garcia J, Oliver S, et al. Young people
               and healthy eating: a systematic review of research on barriers and facilitators London:
               EPPI-Centre, Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London;
               2001.
               36. Macintyre S, Chalmers I, Horton R, Smith R. Using evidence to inform health policy:
               case study. BMJ 2001;322:222-5.
               37. Kristjansson EA, Robinson V, Petticrew M, MacDonald B, Krasevec J, Janzen L, et
               al. School feeding for improving the physical and psychosocial health of disadvantaged
               students. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2007, Issue 1. Art. No.:
               CD004676. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004676.pub2.
               38. Evans T, Brown H. Road traffic crashes: operationalizing equity in the context of
               health sector reform. Inj Control Saf Promot 2003;10:11-2.
               39. Thomas S, Fayter D, Misso K, Ogilvie D, Petticrew M, Sowden A, et al. Population
               tobacco control interventions and their effects on social inequalities in smoking:
               systematic review. Tob Control 2008;17:230-7.
               40. Oliver S, Kavanagh J, Caird J, Lorenc T, Oliver K, Harden A, et al. Health promotion,
               inequalities and young people’s health: a systematic review of research. London: EPPI-
               Centre, Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London;
               2008.
               41. Kavanagh J, Oliver S, Caird J, Tucker H, Greaves A, Harden A, et al. Inequalities
               and the mental health of young people: a systematic review of secondary school-based
               cognitive behavioural interventions. London: EPPI-Centre, Social Science Research Unit,
               Institute of Education, University of London; 2008.
               42. Cochrane Health Equity Field. Cochrane Health Equity Field [internet]. Cochrane
               Collaboration; [cited 2008 12 May]. Available from: www.equity.cochrane.org/en/index.
               html
               43. Gøtzsche PC, Liberati A, Torri V, Rossetti L. Beware of surrogate outcome measures.
               Int J Technol Assess Health Care 1996;12:238-46.
               44. Tilford S. Evidence-based health promotion. Health Educ Res 2000;15:659-63.



                                                                                                       173



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 173                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:31
          Systematic Reviews


          45. Victora CG, Habicht JP, Bryce J. Evidence-based public health: moving beyond
          randomized trials. Am J Public Health 2004;94:400-5.
          46. Ogilvie D, Egan M, Hamilton V, Petticrew M. Systematic reviews of health effects of
          social interventions: 2. Best available evidence: how low should you go? J Epidemiol
          Community Health 2005;59:886-92.
          47. Donner A, Klar N. Pitfalls of and controversies in cluster randomization trials. Am J
          Public Health 2004;94:416-22.
          48. Merzel C, D’Afflitti J. Reconsidering community-based health promotion: promise,
          performance, and potential. Am J Public Health 2003;93:557-74.
          49. Society for Prevention Research. Standards of evidence: criteria for efficacy,
          effectiveness and dissemination. Falls Church, VA, USA: Society for Prevention
          Research; 2004.
          50. Thomas J, Sutcliffe K, Harden A, Oakley A, Oliver S, Rees R, et al. Children and
          healthy eating: a systematic review of barriers and facilitators. London: EPPI-Centre,
          Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London; 2003.
          51. Rees R, Kavanagh J, Burchett H, Shepherd J, Brunton G, Harden A, et al. HIV
          health promotion and men who have sex with men (MSM): a systematic review of
          research relevant to the development and implementation of effective and appropriate
          interventions. London EPPI-Centre, Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education,
          University of London; 2004.
          52. Miller T, Bonas S, Dixon Woods M. Qualitative research on breastfeeding in the UK: a
          narrative review and methodological reflection. Evidence & Policy 2007;3:197-230.
          53. Glasziou P, Vandenbroucke J, Chalmers I. Assessing the quality of research. BMJ
          2004;328:39-41.
          54. Slavin RE. Best evidence synthesis: an intelligent alternative to meta-analysis. J Clin
          Epidemiol 1995;48:9-18.
          55. Ogilvie D, Hamilton V, Egan M, Petticrew M. Systematic reviews of health effects
          of social interventions: 1. Finding the evidence: how far should you go? J Epidemiol
          Community Health 2005;59:804-8.
          56. Alpi KM. Expert searching in public health. J Med Libr Assoc 2005;93:97-103.
          57. Beahler CC, Sundheim JJ, Trapp NI. Information retrieval in systematic reviews:
          challenges in the public health arena. Am J Prev Med 2000;18:6-10.
          58. Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. Systematic overview of population tobacco
          control interventions and their effects on social inequalities in health. CRD Report 39.
          York: University of York; 2008.
          59. Zaza S, Wright-De Aguero LK, Briss PA, Truman BI, Hopkins DP, Hennessy MH, et
          al. Data collection instrument and procedure for systematic reviews in the Guide to
          Community Preventive Services. Am J Prev Med 2000;18:44-74.
          60. Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Review Group. Data collection
          checklist. Ottawa, Canada: Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Review
          Group; 2002.

          174



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 174                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:32
                                                    Systematic reviews of public health interventions


               61. Peersman G, Oliver S, Oakley A. EPPI-Centre review guidelines: data collections
               for the EPIC database. London: EPPI-Centre, Social Science Research Unit, Institute of
               Education, University of London; 1997.
               62. Glasgow RE, Vogt TM, Boles SM. Evaluating the public health impact of health
               promotion interventions: the RE-AIM framework. Am J Public Health 1999;89:1322-7.
               63. Medical Research Council. A framework for development and evaluation of RCTs for
               complex interventions to improve health. London: Medical Research Council; 2000.
               64. Harden A, Peersman G, Oliver S, Mauthner M, Oakley A. A systematic review of the
               effectiveness of health promotion interventions in the workplace. Occup Med (Lond)
               1999;49:540-8.
               65. van Driel WG, Keijsers JF. An instrument for reviewing the effectiveness of health
               education and health promotion. Patient Educ Couns 1997;30:7-17.
               66. Dane AV, Schneider BH. Program integrity in primary and early secondary
               prevention: are implementation effects out of control? Clin Psychol Rev 1998;18:23-45.
               67. Bradley F, Wiles R, Kinmonth A-L, Mant D, Gantley M, for the SHIP Collaborative
               Group. Development and evaluation of complex interventions in health services
               research: case study of the Southampton heart integrated care project (SHIP). BMJ
               1999;318:711-5.
               68. Armstrong R, Waters E, Moore L, Riggs E, Cuervo LG, Lumbiganon P, et al.
               Improving the reporting of public health intervention research: advancing TREND and
               CONSORT. J Public Health 2008;30:103-9.
               69. Carroll C, Patterson M, Wood S, Booth A, Rick J, Balain S. A conceptual framework
               for implementation fidelity. Implement Sci 2007;2.
               70. Underhill K, Mayo-Wison E, Gardner F, Operario D, Montgomery P. A new tool
               to incorporate implementation data into systematic reviews: applying the Oxford
               Implementation Index [abstract]. In: 14th Cochrane Colloquium; 2006 Oct 23-26;
               Dublin, Ireland.
               71. Ogilvie D, Fayter D, Petticrew M, Sowden A, Thomas S, Whitehead M, et al. The
               harvest plot: a method for synthesising evidence about the differential effects of
               interventions. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008;8:8.
               72. Pope C, Mays N, Popay J. Synthesizing qualitative and quantitative health evidence:
               a guide to methods. Maidenhead: Open University Press; 2007.
               73. Mulrow C, Langhorne P, Grimshaw J. Integrating heterogeneous pieces of evidence
               in systematic reviews. Ann Intern Med. 1997;127:989-95.
               74. Herbert RD, Bø K. Analysis of quality of interventions in systematic reviews. BMJ
               2005;331:507-9.
               75. Armstrong R, Waters E, Jackson N, Oliver S, Popay J, Shepherd J, et al. Guidelines
               for systematic reviews of health promotion and public health interventions. Version 2.
               Melbourne University: Australia. October 2007.




                                                                                                       175



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 175                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:32
          Systematic Reviews


          76. Deeks JJ, Dinnes J, D’Amico R, Sowden AJ, Sakarovitch C, Song F, et al. Evaluating
          non-randomised intervention studies. Health Technol Assess 2003;7:1-173.
          77. Wang S, Moss JR, Hiller JE. Applicability and transferability of interventions in
          evidence-based public health. Health Promot Int 2006;21:76-83.




          176



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 176                                                                    8/1/09 09:29:32
               CHAPTER 4
               SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS OF ADVERSE EFFECTS



               4.1 INTRODUCTION                                                               179
               4.2 DEFINING THE REVIEW QUESTION                                               180
                   4.2.1 Population                                                           180
                   4.2.2 Intervention                                                         180
                   4.2.3 Comparators                                                          181
                   4.2.4 Outcomes                                                             181
                   4.2.5 Study design                                                         182
                         4.2.5.1 RCTs                                                         182
                         4.2.5.2 Observational studies                                        182
                         4.2.5.3 Case reports                                                 183
                         4.2.5.4 Databases                                                    183
               4.3 IDENTIFYING ADVERSE EFFECTS EVIDENCE                                       183
                   4.3.1 Search strategy                                                      184
                   4.3.2 Potentially useful sources                                           184
               4.4 DATA EXTRACTION                                                            186
               4.5 QUALITY ASSESSMENT                                                          186
                   4.5.1 Quality assessment criteria                                           186
                         4.5.1.1 Is there an adequate explanation of how adverse effects
                                  were identified?                                             187
                         4.5.1.2 Was a standardised or validated measurement instrument
                                  used?                                                        187
                         4.5.1.3 How was the adverse effect(s) attributed to the intervention? 187
                         4.5.1.4 Are the terms clearly explained?                              188
                   4.5.2 The quality of the reporting of adverse effects in primary
                         studies                                                               188
                   4.5.3 Generalisability                                                      189
               4.6 DATA SYNTHESIS                                                             190
                   4.6.1 Consideration of potential sources of heterogeneity                  190
                   4.6.2 Methods of data synthesis                                            190
                         4.6.2.1 Meta-analysis techniques                                     190
               4.7 REPORTING                                                                  191
               REFERENCES                                                                     192




                                                                                              177



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 177                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:32
          178



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 178   8/1/09 09:29:32
                                                                 Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               4.1          INTRODUCTION

               Therapeutic interventions can have negative (adverse) as well as beneficial effects.
               Many adverse effects can be explained by the mode of action of the intervention and
               can therefore be anticipated and explained. Others may be unexpected, occurring only
               where unique combinations of genetic factors or personality and environment combine.
               Some adverse effects may be extensions of the expected response to an intervention;
               for example severe constipation following the use of an anti-diarrhoeal (loperamide).
               Others may occur where the response to an intervention is unexpectedly negative; for
               example phocomelia (limb abnormalities) following the use of thalidomide for pregnancy
               induced nausea.
               Health care professionals and patients need information about both intended and
               unintended effects of an intervention in order to make an informed decision about its
               adoption.1-3 Even in the presence of reliable information regarding benefit and harm,
               decision-making is seldom straightforward.4
               Most reviews focus on the beneficial effect or clinical effectiveness of an intervention
               without adequately addressing adverse effects.5-7 This imbalance may lead to
               interventions being prescribed or used inappropriately, or patients being harmed by
               potentially avoidable adverse consequences. Systematic review of adverse effects and
               consideration of adverse effects within reviews of effectiveness therefore needs to be
               encouraged. However, this is a relatively new area and methods are still evolving.8, 9
               Some of the methodological issues have been reported10, 11 and a survey of 256 reviews
               of adverse effects identified particular difficulties with search strategies and the
               evaluation of diverse data sources.12 One issue of particular importance is that reviews
               focusing on adverse effects often include studies where harms were of secondary
               interest. Another issue is the selection of adverse effects on which to focus. Many
               systematic reviews have attempted to review all adverse effects of an intervention,10
               but this can be problematic given the often large numbers of different associated
               adverse effects/events some of which may be poorly documented. It is important
               to balance comprehensiveness against clinical relevance and in practical terms the
               outcomes chosen should be those that are important in guiding decisions related to the
               intervention.
               The basic principles for carrying out a systematic review, as described in Chapter 1
               also apply to reviews of adverse effects. This chapter focuses on the differences in
               approach and specific issues related to assessment of the safety and tolerability of an
               intervention. Given that, to date, much development has been around adverse effects
               of pharmacological interventions, this chapter reflects this emphasis. However, the
               principles also apply to other types of intervention, such as surgical procedures and
               medical devices.




                                                                                                     179



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 179                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:32
          Systematic Reviews


          4.2          DEFINING THE REVIEW QUESTION

          4.2.1        Population

          Interventions are sometimes used to treat a number of different conditions. Any
          resulting adverse effects may be experienced across conditions or may be population
          specific. Decisions will need to be made about whether the review will focus on a
          specific population with a particular diagnosis or whether all patient populations who
          have received the intervention will be included. For example, a review assessing the
          effect of statins on cancer risk did not specify why the patients in the studies were
          taking statins.19 This was probably not important in this context, but might have been
          for other adverse effects.
          Overall, broader inclusion criteria make the findings more generalisable, whereas
          narrower inclusion criteria are likely to produce more homogenous results. It is
          important to consider the trade-off between the two approaches.


          4.2.2        Intervention

          For pharmacological interventions, reviews may focus on a single drug, all drugs in a
          class, or even include similar classes of drug. Boundaries will in part depend on the
          type of intervention and the type of adverse effects being investigated. However it is
          important to recognise that there can be problems with grouping drugs together in a
          class; even within a class there can be differences between drugs, and assumptions
          should be avoided. For example, arising from the clinical problem that selective COX2
          inhibitor drugs were suspected of causing cardiovascular adverse effects, a systematic
          review considered all drugs of this class, together with some nonselective COX2
          inhibitors.13 Importantly, drugs were not all treated as a single intervention. The review
          found that of the selective COX2 inhibitors, only rofecoxib was associated with an
          increased risk of cardiovascular events and that one of the older nonselective COX2
          inhibitors, diclofenac, may also increase risk.13 This highlights two important points.
          Firstly, if all selective COX2 inhibitors had been treated as a single intervention, then
          differences between the specific drugs would have been missed. Secondly, if only
          one selective COX2 inhibitor had been included (making the assumption that it was
          representative of its class) then the wrong conclusions would have been reached.
          As for reviews of effectiveness, defining nonpharmacological interventions can be
          difficult. Surgical procedures and medical devices are frequently modified by surgeons/
          manufacturers and the researcher has to decide when such modifications might
          constitute a separate intervention.14 With surgical techniques, there is the added
          complexity that even a standardised technique can be performed differently by different
          surgeons or even by the same surgeon as his/her experience of the technique increases.
          Complex interventions may be even more difficult to define in the context of potential
          adverse effects.




          180



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 180                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:33
                                                                Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               4.2.3        Comparators

               The appropriate comparator will ideally be placebo or no treatment in order to
               identify and evaluate those effects which are truly related to the intervention.
               However, sometimes it is important to explore differences between active treatments.
               This applies to pharmacological interventions such as selective COX2s or statins
               and to nonpharmacological treatments such as catheter ablation with or without
               anticoagulation. A reliable investigation of the differences between active treatments
               can only be undertaken for specific adverse effects within well-defined populations.


               4.2.4        Outcomes

               There is sometimes an assumption that all adverse effects should be included. However,
               such a broad approach can be resource intensive. An analysis of three systematic
               reviews indicated that two included a broad range of events, but generated a large
               volume of work and yielded little useful information for decision making.15 A fully
               comprehensive review will not always be necessary or feasible and narrowing the focus
               to a specific adverse effect or class of effects enables researchers to undertake analyses
               in a systematic, manageable and useful way.16 This can be achieved by investigating
               only those adverse effects that are defined by patients or clinicians as the most serious
               and/or severe and/or troublesome; or are commonly reported, or lead to participant
               withdrawal from treatment.16 The important point is that the scope of a particular review
               should be specified and justified in the protocol. It is also important to consider how to
               detect adverse effects (i.e. unwanted harms of the intervention) rather than adverse
               events that have been recorded in clinical studies, but which may not be causally
               related to the intervention of interest. This is considered further in Section 4.6 Data
               synthesis.
               Primary studies that report on adverse events may differ, for example in the definitions
               of a specific adverse event, severity (or intensity); the reporting (or not) of events
               of differing degrees of severity; the terminology used to describe similar events (e.g.
               fatigue, tiredness, aesthenia and lethargy) and for continuous outcomes, the threshold
               for an ‘abnormal’ result. The review team will need to decide whether outcomes from
               different studies are similar enough to group together in the review. If outcomes are
               grouped it is important to justify the decision.
               Attempts have been made to standardise terminology used to describe adverse events
               by for example, the National Cancer Institute and the World Health Organisation (WHO).
               The WHO criteria (WHO Adverse Reaction Terminology or WHO-ART; see MedDRA
               www.umc-products.com) have been widely adopted by regulatory bodies and the
               pharmaceutical industry. Serious adverse events are defined by the WHO as those that
               lead to significant medical consequences such as death, disability or hospitalisation.
               However, primary studies may define serious adverse events differently, for example
               those that the investigator (or the patient) considers serious. An adverse event may be
               severe in intensity (as opposed to mild or moderate) without necessarily being serious.17
               Different adverse events may be grouped under a broader classification and it may not
               be clear which adverse effects are included, for example the term ‘minor haemorrhage’
               recorded in studies of anticoagulants includes nose bleeds, bruises, gum bleeding, and
               other forms of minor bleeding.

                                                                                                     181



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 181                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:33
          Systematic Reviews


          The identification of rare effects can be specified as an objective.18 However, causality
          and incidence are unlikely to be adequately addressed by reviewing the published
          literature. Rare events almost never occur in controlled trials, with their limited
          participant numbers and follow-up duration. A rate may be estimated from cohort
          studies, and, if the population is unselected, the rate may be a better estimate than
          that arising from an RCT on a highly selected population. However, even published
          observational studies are seldom large enough to provide definitive estimates of
          incidence. The lack of evidence of a rare adverse effect is therefore not proof that such
          an adverse effect is not associated with the intervention of interest.
          It may be helpful when formulating the review question to think in terms of ‘hypothesis
          generating’ or ‘hypothesis testing’. Taking a broad approach in specifying the review
          question, for example by including all adverse effects, could be considered hypothesis
          generating, whereas hypothesis testing should seek to clarify the statistical nature of
          the risk, and/or better define the characteristics of the adverse effect by having a more
          focussed question.


          4.2.5        Study design

          A range of different study designs can provide useful adverse effects data. For example,
          RCTs may be appropriate for common, anticipated adverse effects, observational studies
          may be particularly useful for long-term or rare adverse effects, and post-marketing
          monitoring data may be useful in detecting previously unknown adverse effects.


          4.2.5.1 RCTs

          It is generally recognised that RCTs have major limitations as sources of adverse
          effects/adverse events data. They may not be generalisable having excluded patients
          at high or even medium risk of experiencing certain adverse effects, or may have only
          short-term follow-up and relatively small sample sizes.
          The way that adverse effects data are collected in RCTs and how they are reported is
          also a limitation to their usefulness in systematic reviews. A survey found that of 185
          RCTs of drug therapy, 14% made no mention of adverse effects, and data in a further
          32% could not be fully evaluated.20


          4.2.5.2 Observational studies

          Observational studies, such as controlled or uncontrolled cohort studies or case-control
          studies or large case series, are likely to provide more participants, longer follow-up and
          more generalisable data than RCTs. For example, a meta-analysis of RCTs identified only
          340 cardiovascular events related to Cox 2 inhibitors,21 while a review of observational
          studies identified 60,251 cardiovascular events in nine case-control studies.13 In another
          review of the incidence of thrombotic thrombocytopaenic purpura associated with
          ticlopidine plus aspirin, the only data found were in a single large observational study
          of 43,322 participants.7 Post-marketing surveillance studies may be useful sources of
          adverse events/effects data for pharmaceuticals.


          182



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 182                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:33
                                                                 Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               4.2.5.3 Case reports

               Published case reports (reports of individual spontaneous occurrences of an adverse
               effect in clinical practice), may be a useful source as information about adverse effects
               are frequently reported.6,22,23 However, just because case reports are abundant and
               widely used, does not necessarily render them good sources of evidence.
               Published case reports have significant limitations,24 for example they frequently fail to
               provide important information, including an assessment of likely causal relationship to
               the intervention being evaluated, and some investigations have concluded that stricter
               criteria and guidelines for reporting are required.25, 26 Importantly, case reports cannot
               provide conclusive evidence; they cannot provide an estimate of incidence, and are
               usually only hypothesis generating. Although any indication that a treatment might have
               a significant harmful effect should not be ignored, a balance has to be struck between
               responding to each report of an adverse effect and trying to eliminate uncertainty
               before acting.


               4.2.5.4 Databases

               Arguments have been made for reports of adverse events from drug surveillance
               databases, hospital databases or general practice databases to be incorporated
               into systematic reviews.8 However, it should be noted that analysis of this type of
               information is more akin to primary research than systematic review; using such
               sources will require a properly designed study to yield information, see for example the
               study on the role of paroxitine in suicide.27


               4.3          IDENTIFYING ADVERSE EFFECTS EVIDENCE

               Search methods may vary depending on whether the review focuses on the adverse
               effects of an intervention or focuses primarily on effectiveness but also addresses
               adverse effects.
               If adverse effects are a secondary outcome, then the way that searches are conducted
               will depend largely on how the effectiveness searches were carried out. For example,
               if a search for effectiveness studies included only terms for the population and
               intervention with no search filters for study design, no terms for the outcomes, and
               the definition of the population has not changed, then it may be sufficient to scan the
               results of the effectiveness searches for information on adverse effects. Only a few
               additional searches may be required in additional specialist sources.
               If, for example, the effectiveness searches were limited to RCTs and the adverse effects
               sought are long-term, rare or unanticipated, then additional searches will be required.
               These searches would be carried out in the sources already searched, as well as in
               additional sources specific to adverse effects.




                                                                                                     183



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 183                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:33
          Systematic Reviews


          4.3.1        Search strategy

          If information on a specific named adverse effect is required, the approach used will
          be similar to that for a systematic review of effectiveness, using adverse effects as
          the outcome (see Appendix 4: Searching for specific adverse effects). It should be
          noted, however, that due to the poor reporting and poor indexing of adverse effect
          data this method will not necessarily retrieve all the relevant papers.28-30 Alternatively,
          if all adverse effects for a given intervention are required then a different approach is
          needed. This is outlined in Appendix 4: Searching with generic adverse effects terms.
          Consideration should be given to whether the adverse effect(s) of interest are common
          or rare, short or long-term, known or unknown as this will have implications for the
          choice of study design and therefore the most relevant sources of information and
          search filters.


          4.3.2        Potentially useful sources

          Textbooks and bulletins can be a useful starting point when searching for information on
          adverse effects, particularly of pharmaceuticals. The European Public Assessment Report
          (EPAR) provides a useful summary of adverse effects of drugs licensed by the European
          Medicine’s Agency (EMEA) as does the Summary of Product Characteristics. The
          Physician’s Desk Reference, Meyler’s Side Effects of Drugs, Martindale: The Complete
          Drug Reference and AHFS (American Hospital Formulary Service) Drug Information.
          Problems in Pharmacovigilance the Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin, or
          Reactions Weekly (via PharmaNewsFeed) are also useful sources.
          The main electronic sources for adverse effects data are listed in Table 4.1. Potential
          sources of unpublished information on adverse effects are listed in Table 4.2.
          Very few evaluations have been carried out of the comparative usefulness of these
          sources in terms of yield of relevant information. The available evaluations focus on
          case studies of drug interventions,30-33 and all indicate that EMBASE retrieves more
          relevant references than MEDLINE. Some studies suggest there is potential value in
          searching databases such as Derwent Drug File, 32, 34, 35 and TOXLINE. 30, 31, 36 Searching
          full-text articles may be particularly advantageous in identifying adverse effects due to
          the poor reporting of adverse effects in the title and abstracts of articles and therefore
          the indexing.28, 37-39 Full-text databases provide access to the full-text of articles and
          some enable searches of full-text articles.




          184



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 184                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:34
                                                                      Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               Table 4.1: Summary of information sources

               Electronic sources                                Examples

               Full-text databases                               Iowa Drug Information Service (IDIS),
               Content varies from generic coverage to           PharmaNewsFeed
               specialisation in adverse effects or drug
               information
               Bibliographic databases
               These can be divided into:
               • those specifically related to adverse effects   • TOXLINE
               • those containing a large section of adverse     • Derwent Drug File, International
                  effects information                              Pharmaceutical Abstracts (IPA), Pharmline
               • generic databases that contain information      • MEDLINE, EMBASE
                  on adverse effects
               Referenced summary databases                      Drugdex, Reprorisk, Poisindex, XPharm
               Most specialise in drug information
               Internet reference collections                    Organization of Teratology Information
               Most are topic related, and contain useful        Specialists, Motherisk (safety of drugs during
               bibliographies or reference lists                 pregnancy)
               Spontaneous reporting systems                    Canada’s Adverse Drug Reaction Database, UK
               Some information is free on the internet,        Drug Analysis Prints (DAPS),
               most useful data are available for a fee through DIOGENES, Vigibase Services
               databases or requests services



               Table 4.2: Unpublished data sources

               Unpublished information                           Examples

               Authors                                           Trialists, researchers
               May be authors of efficacy studies or adverse
               effects studies
               Industry                                          GlaxoSmithKline www.gsk-clinicalstudyregister.
               Drug companies or manufacturers of medical        com/
               devices                                           International Federation of Pharmaceutical
                                                                 Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA)
               In many countries, manufacturers of drugs         clinical trials portal (http://clinicaltrials.ifpma.
               have a regulatory requirement to monitor          org/no_cashe/en/myportal/index.htm)
               the adverse effects of their drugs. However       Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
               such data may be classed as commercially          www.fda.gov/ 40
               sensitive and therefore not accessible, and
               even if obtained, can be extremely detailed       Comprehensive clinical trials reports (CCTRs)
               and difficult to navigate                         produced by or for manufacturers




                                                                                                                  185



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 185                                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:34
          Systematic Reviews


          4.4          DATA EXTRACTION

          Data extraction should include frequency, severity, seriousness of the event and
          withdrawals from treatment because of adverse events.
          The way in which adverse events were monitored or recorded may affect the reported
          frequency and so should also, if possible, be extracted. For example, noting whether the
          data were collected at follow-up (and if so how frequently), and whether collected by
          patient diary or checklist, or relied on spontaneous reporting. In studies using patient
          diaries, adverse effects were found to be significantly more common in the active
          treatment than control groups.41 However, when adverse effects were assessed by direct
          questioning, spontaneous reporting, or where the method was not reported, there were
          no significant differences between groups or methods of assessment.
          Withdrawals and drop-outs should be extracted where possible, together with the
          reason if known. However, withdrawals and drop-outs are not reliable surrogates for
          safety or tolerability; withdrawals may be for other reasons than adverse events, for
          example unpleasant or inconvenient study procedures, lack of improvement or earlier
          than expected recovery.42 Alternatively, investigators often make considerable efforts to
          keep withdrawals low43 and this can result in withdrawal rates lower than the ‘true’ rate
          that would be seen in clinical practice.
          Data extraction is frequently complicated by poor reporting. For example, some studies
          only report the number of adverse events, not the number of patients with adverse
          events. This can lead to problems at the data synthesis stage. It is possible to derive
          the number of patients from the number of adverse events or use the number of
          adverse events.44 However this is controversial as it may over or underestimate the rate
          of adverse events.45


          4.5          QUALITY ASSESSMENT

          In studies assessing both effectiveness and adverse effects it is important to recognise
          that there might be differences in the quality of data relating to each type of outcome.
          Such differences are commonly related to the sample size and study duration, which
          may be adequate for the primary efficacy/effectiveness variable but not for adverse
          effects.15, 42 Also the collection of data may be different: for example the efficacy of an
          intervention may be studied in a placebo controlled RCT but the adverse effects data
          may be collected retrospectively when the assigned treatment is known.46


          4.5.1        Quality assessment criteria

          Criteria for assessing the quality of adverse effects data are being developed8, 11 and
          some checklists already exist such as the checklist for assessing quality of RCTs, cohort
          studies and uncontrolled surgical series that reported adverse effects.68 The majority of
          these have not been validated11, 42, 49, 59 and none are suitable for all purposes. However,
          different criteria should be used for different study designs, and the criteria should have
          been validated by empirical evidence wherever possible.11



          186



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 186                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:34
                                                                Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               Efforts have been made to develop a standard scale for assessing the quality of different
               types of study design,69-72 but there is currently no consensus on how to incorporate
               information about quality from a range of study designs within a systematic review.15
               Researchers need to be clear about what they require from quality assessment and
               perform the assessment accordingly.15


               4.5.1.1 Is there an adequate explanation of how adverse effects were
                       identified?

               A variety of measurement instruments may be used to identify adverse effects.
               Examples include active or passive surveillance, questionnaire derived data, clinical
               laboratory and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data. The choice of instrument
               can significantly affect the identification, measurement and reporting of adverse
               effects.22, 47 For example, active surveillance may provide more reliable estimates than
               passive surveillance and even with active surveillance, a prospective method may yield
               more accurate information than a retrospective method.48 The strengths and limitations
               of these methods have been described elsewhere.11, 49 In assessing study quality, it is
               important to consider how adverse effects were identified and reported for each data
               source used. For example, were the adverse effects assessed independently by someone
               other than the surgeon performing the procedure? Are the measurement instruments
               described? Is the timing and duration of follow-up reported?


               4.5.1.2 Was a standardised or validated measurement instrument used?

               There are a number of standardised instruments for reporting adverse effects.50-58
               For example the National Cancer Institute54 and the National Institute of Allergy and
               Infectious Diseases59 have introduced guidance on assessing the severity of adverse
               effects. Similarly, the Brighton Collaboration has developed guidelines for reporting
               adverse effects following immunisation.52 The use of nonstandardised and nonvalidated
               scales is also very common,42 and it is important to specify whether included studies
               used a standardised or validated scale to report adverse effects.


               4.5.1.3 How was the adverse effect(s) attributed to the intervention?

               Studies should make clear how they identified that the harm was related to the
               intervention, who made the attribution (e.g. investigators, participants, sponsors or a
               combination of these) and whether the process was blinded to assigned treatment.42
               Establishing the causal link between the intervention and harms may be particularly
               difficult in case reports, and the following criteria may be helpful for establishing
               causality: temporal relationship, lack of alternative causes, and for interventions that
               are given repeatedly over time, response to discontinuation (dechallenge), dose-
               response relationship and response to repeat exposure (rechallenge).11 For drug
               interventions the presence of toxic concentrations of a drug may also indicate a causal
               relationship.




                                                                                                     187



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 187                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:35
          Systematic Reviews


          4.5.1.4 Are the terms clearly explained?

          A variety of terms are used to identify adverse effects, with some of the terms
          remaining ill-defined and the boundaries between them not clearly described.42, 49 The
          lack of standard and well-constructed terms and a set of definitions has led to real
          difficulties in comparing adverse effects between studies.20 To make accurate and
          reliable comparisons between, or synthesis of, studies it is important that clear and well-
          constructed terms and definitions are used. In particular the severity of adverse effects
          should be adequately defined by either detailed description of severity or reference to a
          known scale of severity.60


          4.5.2        The quality of the reporting of adverse effects in primary studies

          Currently there is no agreed standard about what and how information is recorded
          and reported,61 and hence no consistency in the data available for extraction.62 The
          CONSORT statement has been extended in an effort to improve reporting of harms
          from RCTs,42 but this is likely to be of limited value as data on adverse events are
          often derived from studies other than RCTs. Some of the criteria in the extension to
          the CONSORT statement are relevant to absolute quality and others are important for
          enabling adverse effects information to be synthesised and compared across studies.
          Ideally, study results should be reported according to the methods section of the study
          protocol.63 The number of each type of adverse effect should be reported for each
          study arm. The timing of events should also be reported, particularly when the follow-
          up period is prolonged. Many RCTs are large enough to evaluate the beneficial effects
          of the intervention, but the majority are not adequately powered to detect statistically
          significant differences for most adverse effects, except very common ones.6, 48 This may
          lead to overinterpreting the absence of adverse effects especially when the sample size
          is small.48 Serious and life-threatening adverse effects in particular should be described
          separately for each type of event.48 If no adverse effect of a specific type or severity
          occurred this should be stated.
          The report should specify the number of patients withdrawn from the study because
          of adverse effects by study arm and by type of adverse effects and detail who decided
          to withdraw (participant or physician) and whether attribution was blinded to the
          assigned treatment.42, 48 Such information is often not well reported. A systematic
          review of published RCTs on treatments for HIV infection found that although 82%
          of trials reported how many patients discontinued the study treatment, reasons were
          stated in only 38%.64 A further systematic review found that 75% of trials in seven
          medical areas reported the number of discontinuations due to toxicity per study arm,
          but specific reasons were given in only 46%.60 Studies with prolonged follow-up should
          report the timing of withdrawals as the causes of early withdrawals may differ from late
          withdrawals.
          Sometimes more than one adverse effect may occur in a patient but this is not always
          reported clearly. It is most helpful when both the number of affected participants and
          the total number of adverse effects are reported, with the denominators and incidence
          or prevalence rates.42



          188



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 188                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:35
                                                                 Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               Intention-to-treat is usually the recommended method of analysis (see Chapter 1
               Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis). It may however, underestimate adverse effects
               particularly when there is a high rate of nonadherence with allocated treatment.42 ‘On
               treatment’ or ‘per protocol’ analysis, in which adverse effects are only considered in
               those patients who have received the intervention, are probably more appropriate.
               There are a number of factors associated with bias in the reporting of adverse effects
               data. It is important to be clear about whether a paper includes all adverse effects that
               occurred or just a selected sample.42 If a subset is reported it should be clear how, why
               and who made the selection. It should also be clear whether the selection was made
               on the basis of frequency (e.g. common events), severity, seriousness, or biological
               relevance to the intervention.65 Clinical trials have been found to report adverse effects
               without distinction of severity and this may hinder accurate comparison of adverse
               effects between studies.60 If severity and seriousness are not considered then the
               synthesis may be flawed. Where critical or otherwise significant adverse effects have
               been reported they should ideally have been investigated and the findings included in
               the report.8
               Which adverse effects are critical or important is a clinical judgement and depends on
               the purpose of the study. For example if the study is of healthy individuals and the main
               focus is prevention, even minor harms might be important in the balance of harms
               and benefits. Alternatively, if the main study outcome is survival, only major or life-
               threatening harms might be relevant.42
               Some studies with poor reporting of adverse effects may be methodologically sound
               and contact with authors may retrieve additional information.66 However, contact with
               authors may retrieve little information, even when studies are recently completed and
               targeting a very common condition.67


               4.5.3        Generalisability

               A combination of factors such as patient characteristics (e.g. age), type and severity of
               disease, co-morbidities and clinical setting may contribute to the occurrence of adverse
               effects. Likely effects of confounding factors should be considered, particularly when
               using data from case series and observational studies. Interpreting adverse effects data
               from RCTs can also be problematic; in clinical trials most participants have the disease
               of interest but are otherwise healthy, but once the intervention is licensed it is often
               used in individuals with co-morbidities who are taking several other drugs.42 These
               confounding factors may affect the generalisability of the study and should be clearly
               described.




                                                                                                      189



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 189                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:35
          Systematic Reviews


          4.6          DATA SYNTHESIS

          4.6.1        Consideration of potential sources of heterogeneity

          Systematic reviews of adverse effects often include evidence from a variety of
          sources including RCTs, observational studies, case reports and case series. There are
          difficulties in synthesising disparate data sets and differences between studies have
          to be considered as a source of heterogeneity (whether narrative or quantitative).
          In observational studies the extent of drug exposure is not as certain as in RCTs. For
          example, in cohort studies many patients might have received an incomplete course
          of medication which may lead to the underestimation of the true rate or severity of
          adverse effects. Patients in the control group may have procured the medication during
          a generally prolonged follow-up period and this may lead to overestimation of the rate
          of adverse effects in the control group.73


          4.6.2        Methods of data synthesis

          Whether narrative or quantitative synthesis is used, researchers should try to explore
          any patterns identified across the results and discuss the possible factors that might
          explain variations in study findings (e.g. rate and severity of adverse effects). Attempts
          should be made to explore possible relationships between characteristics of included
          studies and their reported findings and also between the findings of different studies.
          Researchers should clearly indicate the populations addressed by the included studies
          and carefully assess the applicability to other populations.11
          Exploring heterogeneity in study findings is especially important.74 Variations may
          be due to methodological differences and/or differences in the characteristics of the
          included studies. The possible effects of individual study quality indicators (e.g. follow-
          up period, methods used to identify adverse effects), study design, study size and
          funding sources in the analysis should be investigated and discussed.11 Subgroup,
          sensitivity or regression analyses may be helpful for explaining some of these variations
          and generating functional hypotheses.
          Researchers should provide a detailed description of cases of unusual or not previously
          recorded adverse effects.48


          4.6.2.1 Meta-analysis techniques

          There is little guidance about when and how to perform meta-analysis of adverse effects
          data. It is important, but not always easy to determine when and what data from
          multiple studies should be combined.75 No standard technique is available for meta-
          analysis of diverse and heterogeneous data, and selection of techniques depends on
          different factors including the aim of the review, characteristics of selected studies and
          type of outcomes.73 Although data from both observational studies and RCTs has been
          combined, for example to present a single estimate of mortality associated with chronic
          usage of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs),73 in some reviews it may
          only be appropriate to quantitatively combine results from one or some study designs



          190



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 190                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:35
                                                                   Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               (e.g. RCTs and cohort studies) and synthesise data from other types of studies (e.g.
               case series and case reports) using a narrative approach. As with efficacy data it may
               be appropriate to conduct subgroup analyses or, where data allow, use meta-regression
               to further explore the risk of adverse effects. For example the risk of bowel perforation
               with the cancer drug bevacizumab is thought to be higher in patients with ovarian
               cancer than in other cancers.76
               Various Bayesian approaches to meta-analysis have been used77-80 and when and how
               to use Bayesian approaches in reviews of adverse effects is a developing field. For
               example, a Bayesian approach has been used to combine evidence from case-control
               and prospective studies to estimate the absolute risk of developing ovarian cancer.81


               4.7          REPORTING

               The guidance for report writing presented in Chapter 1, Section 1.3.6 Report writing,
               is relevant to reviews of adverse effects. However, when reporting reviews of adverse
               effects it is important that detailed cross referencing to related reviews of the intended
               effects of the intervention are provided for the reader.



                  Summary: Systematic reviews of adverse effects

                  •     The number of different reported adverse effects/events can be large and
                        comprehensiveness needs to be balanced against clinical relevance. The
                        outcomes selected should be those that are important in guiding decisions
                        related to the intervention.
                  •     Observational studies, such as controlled or uncontrolled cohort studies or
                        case-control studies or large case series, are likely to provide more patients,
                        longer follow-up and more generalisable data than RCTs.
                  •     Search methods may vary depending on whether adverse effects are the main
                        focus of the review or a secondary focus.
                  •     Both the quality of the primary studies and the quality of the reporting of
                        adverse events within the primary studies should be considered.
                  •     Meta-analysis may be more challenging and problematic than when applied to
                        effectiveness data. Whatever the method of synthesis, researchers should try
                        to illustrate the patterns identified across the results and discuss the possible
                        factors that might explain variations in study findings.




                                                                                                          191



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 191                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:36
          Systematic Reviews


          REFERENCES

          1. Loke YK. Assessing the benefit-harm balance at the bedside. BMJ 2004;329:7-8.
          2. Asscher AW, Parr GD, Whitmarsh VB. Towards the safer use of medicines. BMJ
          1995;311:1003-6.
          3. Cuervo GL, Clarke M. Balancing benefits and harms in health care. BMJ 2003;327:65-
          6.
          4. Greenhalgh T, Kostopoulou O, Harries C. Making decisions about benefits and harms
          of medicines. BMJ 2004;329:47-50.
          5. Ernst E, Pittler MH. Assessment of therapeutic safety in systematic reviews: literature
          review. BMJ 2001;323:546.
          6. Aronson JK, Derry S, Loke YK. Adverse drug reactions: keeping up to date. Fundam
          Clin Pharmacol 2002;16:49-56.
          7. Cosmi B, Castelvetri C, Milandri M, Rubboli A, Confoti A. The evaluation of rare
          adverse drug events in Cochrane reviews: the incidence of thrombotic thrombocytopenic
          purpura after ticlopidine plus aspirin for coronary stenting. [Abstract] In: 8th Cochrane
          Colloquium; 2000 Oct 25-29; Cape Town, South Africa.
          8. Loke YK, Price D, Herxheimer A. Chapter 14: Adverse effects. In: Higgins JPT, Green
          S, editors. Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions Version 5.0.0
          (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available from: www.
          cochrane-handbook.org
          9. Loke YK, Price D, Herxheimer A, Cochrane Adverse Effects Methods Group.
          Systematic reviews of adverse effects: framework for a structured approach. BMC Med
          Res Methodol 2007;7:32.
          10. McIntosh H, Woolacott N, Bagnall A. Comparison of methods used to assess adverse
          events in three CRD reviews [abstract]. In: 11th Cochrane Colloquium; 2003 Oct 26-31;
          Barcelona, Spain.
          11. Chou R, Helfand M. Challenges in systematic reviews that assess treatment harms.
          Ann Intern Med 2005;142:1090-9.
          12. Golder S, Loke Y, McIntosh HM. Room for improvement? A survey of the methods
          used in systematic reviews of adverse effects. BMC Med Res Methodol 2006;6:3.
          13. McGettigan P, Henry D. Cardiovascular risk and inhibition of cyclooxygenase: a
          systematic review of the observational studies of selective and nonselective inhibitors of
          cyclooxygenase 2. JAMA 2006;296:1633-44.
          14. Rodgers M, McKenna C, Palmer S, Chambers D, Van Hout S, Golder S, et al. Curative
          catheter ablation in atrial fibrillation and typical atrial flutter: systematic review and
          economic evaluation [in press]. Health Technol Assess 2008.
          15. McIntosh HM, Woolacott NF, Bagnall AM. Assessing harmful effects in systematic
          reviews. BMC Med Res Methodol 2004;4:19.




          192



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 192                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:36
                                                                  Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               16. Higgins JPT, Green S, (editors). Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of
               Interventions. Version 5.0.0 [updated February 2008]: The Cochrane Collaboration;
               2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
               17. Aronson JK, Ferner RE. Clarification of terminology in drug safety. Drug Saf
               2005;28:851-70.
               18. Bagnall A-M, Jones L, Ginnelly L, Lewis R, Glanville J, Gilbody S, et al. A systematic
               review of atypical antipsychotic drugs in schizophrenia. Health Technol Assess
               2003;7:1-193.
               19. Dale KM, Coleman CI, Henyan NN, Kluger J, White CM. Statins and cancer risk: a
               meta-analysis. JAMA 2006;295:74-80.
               20. Loke YK, Derry S. Reporting of adverse drug reactions in randomised controlled
               trials - a systematic survey. BMC Clin Pharmacol 2001;1:3.
               21. Kearney PM, Baigent C, Godwin J, Halls H, Emberson JR, Patrono C. Do selective
               cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors and traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
               increase the risk of atherothrombosis? Meta-analysis of randomised trials. BMJ
               2006;332:1302-8.
               22. Loke YK, Derry S, Aronson JK. A comparison of three different sources of data in
               assessing the frequencies of adverse reactions to amiodarone. Br J Clin Pharmacol
               2004;57:616-21.
               23. Arnaiz JA, Carne X, Riba N, Codina C, Ribas J, Trilla A. The use of evidence in
               pharmacovigilance. Case reports as the reference source for drug withdrawals. Eur J
               Clin Pharmacol 2001;57:89-91.
               24. Loke YK, Price D, Derry S, Aronson JK. Case reports of suspected adverse drug
               reactions: systematic literature survey of follow-up. BMJ 2006;332:335-9.
               25. Aronson JK. Anecdotes as evidence: we need guidelines for reporting anecdotes of
               suspected adverse drug reactions. BMJ 2003;326:1346.
               26. Kelly WN. The quality of published adverse drug event reports. Ann Pharmacother
               2003;37:1774-8.
               27. Medawar C, Herxheimer A, Bell A, Jofre S. Paroxetine, Panorama and user reporting
               of ADRs: consumer intelligence matters in clinical practice and post-marketing drug
               surveillance. Int J Risk Saf Med 2002;15:161-9.
               28. Derry S, Loke YK, Aronson JK. Incomplete evidence: the inadequacy of databases
               in tracing published adverse drug reactions in clinical trials. BMC Med Res Methodol
               2001;1:7.
               29. Wieland S, Dickersin K. Selective exposure reporting and Medline indexing
               limited the search sensitivity for observational studies of the adverse effects of oral
               contraceptives. J Clin Epidemiol 2005;58:560-7.
               30. Golder S, McIntosh HM, Duffy S, Glanville J. Developing efficient search strategies
               to identify reports of adverse effects in MEDLINE and EMBASE. Health Info Libr J
               2006;23:3-12.



                                                                                                         193



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 193                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:36
          Systematic Reviews


          31. Biarez O, Sarrut B, Doreau CG, Etienne J. Comparison and evaluation of nine
          bibliographic databases concerning adverse drug reactions. DICP 1991;25:1062-5.
          32. Thomson Scientific. Derwent Drug File: Definitive drug journal and conference
          information. Thomson Scientific; 2004. [cited 2008 20 Oct]. Available from:
          http://scientific.thomson.com/media/dw/productpdfs/ddf-compare.pdf
          33. Bagnall AM, Jones L, Glanville J, Kleijnen J. Assessing adverse events in a
          systematic review of atypical antipsychotics for schizophrenia. In: 4th Symposium on
          Systematic Reviews: Pushing the Boundaries; 2002 Jul; Oxford. 2002.
          34. Sodha RV, Van Amelsvoort T. Multi-database searches in biomedicine: citation
          duplication and novelty assessment using carbamazepine as an example. J Inf Sci
          1994;20:139-41.
          35. Van Putte N. A comparison of four biomedical databases for the retrieval of drug
          literature. Health Inf Lib 1991;3:119-27.
          36. Madden M, MacDonald A. An evaluation and comparison of nine drug information
          retrieval services. Drug Inf J 1977;11:47-59.
          37. Windsor DA. Adverse-reactions literature: a bibliometric analysis. Methods Inf Med
          1977;16:52-4.
          38. Nuovo J, Sather C. Reporting adverse events in randomized controlled trials.
          Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf 2007;16:349-51.
          39. Bernal-Delgado E, Fisher ES. Abstracts in high profile journals often fail to report
          harm. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008;8:14.
          40. MacLean CH, Morton SC, Ofman JJ, Roth EA, Shekelle PG, Southern California
          Evidence-Based Practice Center. How useful are unpublished data from the Food and
          Drug Administration in meta-analysis? J Clin Epidemiol 2003;56:44-51.
          41. Edwards JE, McQuay HJ, Moore RA, Collins SL. Reporting of adverse effects in
          clinical trials should be improved: lessons from acute postoperative pain. J Pain
          Symptom Manage 1999;18:427-37.
          42. Ioannidis JP, Evans SJ, Gøtzsche PC, O’Neill RT, Altman DG, Schulz K, et al. Better
          reporting of harms in randomized trials: an extension of the CONSORT statement. Ann
          Intern Med 2004;141:781-8.
          43. Aitken L, Gallagher R, Madronio C. Principles of recruitment and retention in clinical
          trials. Int J Nurs Pract 2003;9:338-46.
          44. Lazarou J, Pomeranz BH, Corey PN. Incidence of adverse drug reactions in
          hospitalized patients: a meta-analysis of prospective studies. JAMA 1998;279:1200-5.
          45. Ross SD. Drug-related adverse events: a readers’ guide to assessing literature
          reviews and meta-analyses. Arch Intern Med 2001;161:1041-6.
          46. Henry D, Moxey A, O’Connell D. Agreement between randomized and non-
          randomized studies: the effects of bias and confounding [abstract]. In: 9th Cochrane
          Colloquium; 2001 Oct 9-13; Lyon, France.




          194



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 194                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:36
                                                                 Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               47. Olsen H, Klemetsrud T, Stokke HP, Tretli S, Westheim A. Adverse drug reactions in
               current antihypertensive therapy: a general practice survey of 2586 patients in Norway.
               Blood Press 1999;8:94-101.
               48. Ioannidis JPA, Lau J. Improving safety reporting from randomised trials. Drug Saf
               2002;25:77-84.
               49. Baba-Akbari A. Study of the scale, nature and causes of adverse events and
               methods to identify them [PhD]. York: University of York; 2006.
               50. Bonhoeffer J, Kohl K, Chen R, Duclos P, Heijbel H, Heininger U, et al. The Brighton
               Collaboration: addressing the need for standardized case definitions of adverse events
               following immunization (AEFI). Vaccine 2002;21:298-302.
               51. Trotti A, Bentzen SM. The need for adverse effects reporting standards in oncology
               clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:19-22.
               52. Kohl KS, Bonhoeffer J, Chen R, Duclos P, Heijbel H, Heininger U, et al. The Brighton
               Collaboration: enhancing comparability of vaccine safety data. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug
               Saf 2003;12:335-40.
               53. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Division of AIDS table for
               grading the severity of adult and pediatric adverse events [monograph online].
               Bethesda, MD: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases; 2004. Available
               from: www3.niaid.nih.gov/research/resources/DAIDSClinRsrch/
               54. National Cancer Institute. Common Toxicity Criteria v2.0 (CTC) [monograph online].
               Bethesda, MD: National Cancer Institute; 1999. Available from: http://ctep.cancer.gov/
               reporting/ctc_archive.html
               55. Peloso PM, Wright JG, Bombardier C. A critical appraisal of toxicity indexes in
               rheumatology. J Rheumatol 1995;22:989-94.
               56. Vitiello B, Riddle MA, Greenhill LL, March JS, Levine J, Schachar RJ, et al. How can
               we improve the assessment of safety in child and adolescent psychopharmacology? J
               Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry 2003;42:634-41.
               57. Miller AB, Hoogstraten B, Staquet M, Winkler A. Reporting results of cancer
               treatment. Cancer 1981;47:207-14.
               58. Corso DM, Pucino F, DeLeo JM, Calis KA, Gallelli JF. Development of a questionnaire
               for detecting potential adverse drug reactions. Ann Pharmacother 1992;26:890-6.
               59. Woloshynowych M, Rogers S, Taylor-Adams S, Vincent C. The investigation and
               analysis of critical incidents and adverse events in healthcare. Health Technol Assess
               2005;9:1-158.
               60. Ioannidis JP, Lau J. Completeness of safety reporting in randomized trials: an
               evaluation of 7 medical areas. JAMA 2001;285:437-43.
               61. MacLehose HG, Klaes D, Garner P. What methods do trials use to collect adverse
               data? [abstract]. In: 11th Cochrane Colloquium; 2003 Oct 26-31; Barcelona, Spain.




                                                                                                       195



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 195                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:37
          Systematic Reviews


          62. Price D, Jefferson T. Methodological problems in the interpretation of adverse event
          data included in a systematic review of adverse events following measles-mumps-
          rubella (MMR) immuniziation [abstract]. In: 4th Symposium on Systematic Reviews:
          Pushing the Boundaries; 2002 Jul; Oxford.
          63. Chan AW, Hrobjartsson A, Haahr MT, Gøtzsche PC, Altman DG. Empirical evidence
          for selective reporting of outcomes in randomized trials: comparison of protocols to
          published articles. JAMA 2004;291:2457-65.
          64. Ioannidis JP, Contopoulos-Ioannidis DG. Reporting of safety data from randomised
          trials. Lancet 1998;352:1752-3.
          65. Keech AC, Wonders SW, Cook DI, Gebski VJ. Balancing the outcomes: reporting
          adverse events. Med J Aust 2004;181:215-8.
          66. Price D, Jefferson T, Demicheli V. Methodological issues arising from systematic
          reviews of the evidence of safety of vaccines. Vaccine 2004;22:2080-4.
          67. Ioannidis JP, Chew P, Lau J. Standardized retrieval of side effects data for meta-
          analysis of safety outcomes. A feasibility study in acute sinusitis. J Clin Epidemiol
          2002;55:619-26.
          68. Meenan RT, Saha S, Chou R, Swarztrauber K, Pyle Krages K, O’Keefe-Rosetti M,
          et al. Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of echocardiography and carotid imaging in
          the management of stroke. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
          (AHRQ); 2002.
          69. Downs SH, Black N. The feasibility of creating a checklist for the assessment of the
          methodological quality both of randomised and non-randomised studies of health care
          interventions. J Epidemiol Community Health 1998;52:377-84.
          70. Slim K, Nini E, Forestier D, Kwiatkowski F, Panis Y, Chipponi J. Methodological index
          for non-randomized studies (minors): development and validation of a new instrument.
          ANZ J Surg 2003;73:712-6.
          71. Wells GA, Shea B, O’Connell D, Peterson J, Welch V, Tugwell P. The Newcastle-
          Ottawa Scale (NOS) for assessing the quality of nonrandomised studies in meta-
          analyses [abstract]. In: 3rd Symposium on Systematic Reviews: Beyond the Basics;
          2000 Jul; Oxford.
          72. Pope C, Mays N, Popay J. Synthesizing qualitative and quantitative health evidence:
          a guide to methods. Maidenhead: Open University Press; 2007.
          73. Tramer MR, Moore RA, Reynolds DJM, McQuay HJ. Quantitative estimation of rare
          adverse events which follow a biological progression: a new model applied to chronic
          NSAID use. Pain 2000;85:169-82.
          74. Egger M, Schneider M, Davey Smith G. Spurious precision? Meta-analysis of
          observational studies. BMJ 1998;316:140-4.
          75. Naylor CD. The case for failed meta-analyses. J Eval Clin Pract 1995;1:127-30.
          76. Han ES, Monk BJ. What is the risk of bowel perforation associated with bevacizumab
          therapy in ovarian cancer? Gynecol Oncol 2007;105:3-6.



          196



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 196                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:37
                                                                 Systematic reviews of adverse effects


               77. Wang J, Donnan PT, MacDonald TM. An approximate Bayesian risk analysis of the
               gastro-intestinal safety of iboprufen. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf 2002;11:695-701.
               78. Babapulle MN, Joseph L, Belisle P, Brophy JM, Eisenberg MJ. A hierarchical Bayesian
               meta-analysis of randomised clinical trials of drug-eluting stents. Lancet 2004;364:583-
               91.
               79. Stricker BH, Psaty BM. Detection, verification, and quantification of adverse drug
               reactions. BMJ 2004;329:44-7.
               80. Zucker DR, Schmid CH, McIntosh MW, D’Agostino RB, Selker HP, Lau J. Combining
               single patient (N-of-1) trials to estimate population treatment effects and to evaluate
               individual patient responses to treatment. J Clin Epidemiol 1997;50:401-10.
               81. Muller P, Parmigiani G, Schildkraut J, Tardella L. A Bayesian hierarchical approach for
               combining case-control and prospective studies. Biometrics 1999;55:858-66.




                                                                                                        197



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 197                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:37
          198



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 198   8/1/09 09:29:37
               CHAPTER 5
               SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS OF ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS



               5.1 INTRODUCTION                                                            201
                   5.1.1 What is an economic evaluation?                                   202
               5.2 CONDUCTING A REVIEW OF ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS                             203
                   5.2.1 The review question                                               203
                   5.2.2 Inclusion criteria                                                203
               5.3 IDENTIFYING ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS                                        204
               5.4 DATA EXTRACTION                                                         204
               5.5 QUALITY ASSESSMENT                                                      206
                   5.5.1 Methods of deriving effectiveness data                            206
                   5.5.2 Cost analysis                                                     207
                         5.5.2.1 Cost categories                                           207
                   5.5.3 Measurement and valuation of health benefits (utilities)          208
                   5.5.4 Methods of synthesising costs and effects                         208
                   5.5.5 Analysis of uncertainty                                           208
                         5.5.5.1 Statistical comparisons                                   209
                         5.5.5.2 Bootstrapping                                             209
                         5.5.5.3 Sensitivity analysis - parameter uncertainty              209
                         5.5.5.4 Sensitivity analysis - methodological uncertainty         209
                         5.5.5.5 Probabilistic sensitivity analyses                        211
                   5.5.6 Generalisability of the results                                   212
                   5.5.7 Use of checklists to assess the quality of economic evaluations   212
                   5.5.8 Quality scoring systems                                           212
               5.6 DATA SYNTHESIS                                                          212
               5.7 REPORTING                                                               214
               REFERENCES                                                                  215




                                                                                           199



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 199                                                             8/1/09 09:29:37
          200



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 200   8/1/09 09:29:38
                                                          Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


               5.1          INTRODUCTION

               Where resources are limited, decision-makers need to consider not only whether an
               intervention is effective but whether it is also cost-effective. If a new intervention
               requires more resource than current practice, then this will have to be found from
               elsewhere within the health system, and adoption may displace other treatments
               or services. Considering economic aspects alongside clinical effectiveness can make
               reviews more useful to health care decision-makers.1 There are three main options for
               addressing economic issues within or alongside a systematic review of effectiveness.
               First, at a basic level any cost or resource information reported in the effectiveness
               studies can be extracted and presented as an additional outcome (see Chapter 1 Section
               1.2.2.2 Review question and inclusion criteria). Although this may not constitute a
               formal economic evaluation, it can provide useful additional information that may be of
               value in a decision-making context.
               The second option involves undertaking two mutually dependent components: a
               review of all available evidence and an economic evaluation, which is often achieved
               through the use of decision modelling.2 The findings of the review are used to help
               develop and populate a decision model. This is a common approach, used primarily in
               health technology assessment. Many such examples have been undertaken for NICE.3-5
               However, decision modelling is outside the remit of this chapter as it involves specialist
               skills, but good introductory texts are available.6
               The third option is to carry out a systematic review of existing economic evaluation
               studies that have focused on the intervention in question. This is often done alongside
               the clinical effectiveness review. However, the exact role for this type of review is
               unclear and questions remain as to whether it is actually useful to undertake reviews
               of existing economic evaluations.7 A fundamental reason for undertaking a review of
               any kind is that the collation and synthesis of evidence will be more useful than that
               available from any individual study. But, given the disparity in methods used across
               existing economic evaluations it is extremely difficult to synthesise such studies into
               a coherent whole. Studies need to be adjusted to achieve standardised results, but in
               reality this is rarely achievable given the diverse nature of the elements considered,
               including differences in perspectives, health care systems (which use different
               resources) and time horizons.
               Although some health economists have expressed concerns about the value of
               systematic reviews of economic evaluation7, 8 methods are available to guide their
               conduct9 and a large number have been undertaken.10, 11 Reasons for undertaking this
               type of review include i) to inform development of a decision model; ii) to identify the
               most relevant economic evaluation to inform a particular question; and iii) to identify
               the key economic trade-offs implicit in a particular treatment choice.8 Whether or
               not these are the only viable reasons is still open to debate, but when considering
               undertaking such a review it is important to have a clear rationale for doing so and that
               the objectives set are attainable.
               This chapter assumes that, for whatever reason, a systematic review of economic
               evaluation is appropriate. The aim of the chapter is to guide non-health economists
               through some of the main issues to be considered when undertaking a systematic
               review of economic evaluation, and should be read in conjunction with the general

                                                                                                      201



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 201                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:38
          Systematic Reviews


          guidance presented in Chapter 1. The same basic principles apply and only issues
          specific to reviews of economic evaluation are described here.


          5.1.1        What is an economic evaluation?

          An economic evaluation is essentially a tool to allow comparative health interventions
          to be evaluated in order to address the issue of efficient resource allocation. It is widely
          accepted that on their own, economic evaluations are not sufficient to inform decision-
          making, but that they are a necessary component of the decision-making process.
          An economic evaluation is a study in which both the cost and health outcomes of
          comparative technologies or interventions have been assessed. The aim is to identify,
          measure, value and compare the cost and consequences of the alternative interventions
          being considered. Primary economic evaluation can either be undertaken as an integral
          part of a single clinical study, often a trial, or can be based on more than one source
          of effectiveness data derived from expert opinion, authors’ assumptions or reviews of
          clinical effectiveness - in this way economic evaluations can both use and be used in
          systematic review. Either approach may employ modelling techniques.
          Full economic evaluation provides a framework for structuring specific decision problems
          and considers both the effectiveness and cost data for two or more interventions being
          compared within the analysis. A partial economic evaluation makes no comparison
          and simply describes a single intervention or service through consideration of costs or
          consequences alone.12 There are three generic types of full economic evaluation, each
          defined on the basis of the outcomes measured. See Box 5.1.



              Box 5.1 Generic types of full economic evaluation

              Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA)
              A single clinical outcome expressed in natural units (e.g. postoperative infections
              prevented or life years gained) is used. If multiple clinical outcomes are used,
              cost-consequences analysis (CCA) may be reported which includes all clinical
              outcomes and costs for each alternative. Clinical outcomes may vary in direction
              and magnitude of effect.
              Cost-utility analysis (CUA)
              Clinical outcomes (health states) are converted into utility scores using a utility
              measurement instrument such as the SF-6D or the EuroQol (EQ-5D) to estimate
              quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs). Alternatively other utility measures such as
              healthy-years-equivalent (HYE) may be used.
              Cost-benefit analysis (CBA)
              Clinical outcomes are converted into monetary units so that a net benefit (or cost)
              can be estimated. Methods used to convert health benefits to monetary values
              include willingness to pay (WTP) and the human capital approach (HCA).




          202



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 202                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:38
                                                          Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


               As with other types of evaluation, a wide range of methods are used in economic
               evaluation, and therefore the methodological rigour of studies can vary; methods can
               be used inappropriately and decisions about the appropriateness of methods can impact
               on the quality and validity of a review. It is therefore important that the researcher
               understands at least some basic methodological concepts prior to undertaking a review
               of economic evaluations. More complex issues can be dealt with in consultation with the
               health economist that should be included in the review team.


               5.2          CONDUCTING A REVIEW OF ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS

               A protocol for a review of economic evaluations should be developed as for a review of
               effectiveness (see Chapter 1, Section 1.2 The review protocol) and be used to establish
               in advance the methods that will be used throughout. Early discussion with a health
               economist is recommended.


               5.2.1        The review question

               An economic review may consider questions relating to the cost-effectiveness of
               differing interventions, outcomes, populations and settings, or may explore the effect
               of other factors, such as change in patient adherence, on the cost-effectiveness of
               interventions.
               The scope may need to be broader than that set for clinical effectiveness to capture all
               relevant costs and consequences. For example, resources such as further treatments
               consumed or avoided downstream of the intervention will need to be included in the
               economic evaluation. Working through the care pathway for relevant interventions
               may be helpful in identifying relevant costs and benefits, and in formulating the review
               question.


               5.2.2        Inclusion criteria

               As described in Chapter 1, Section 1.2 The review protocol, PICOS may be helpful in
               defining clear inclusion and exclusion criteria.
               A basic consideration will be whether to include only full economic evaluations as
               under certain circumstances and for specific review questions, it might be appropriate
               to include partial economic evaluations. For example, if the review question involves
               incremental costs, then cost analyses may be relevant. Alternatively, if the question
               is about relative benefits (measured using methods such as QALYs or WTP) studies
               comparing these outcomes might be considered appropriate even if they are not full
               economic evaluations. Where partial evaluations are included, as for all reviews, a
               systematic and transparent approach must be taken.
               Reviews of economic evaluations are more likely to require a time horizon of ‘till death’
               which may necessitate including types of study that differ from the clinical review, and
               require additional inclusion criteria being specified.




                                                                                                     203



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 203                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:38
          Systematic Reviews


          The review may be limited to include only those economic studies that incorporated a
          high quality source of clinical evidence, from an RCT or a systematic review.
          Other considerations around the study type may include, for example, whether to
          restrict inclusion to economic evaluations from a societal perspective.
          Outcomes may also differ from those of primary interest in the clinical review. For
          example, quality-adjusted-life-years are more likely to be relevant to economic
          evaluation.


          5.3          IDENTIFYING ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS

          Literature searches can utilise both the sources used routinely for effectiveness reviews
          (see Chapter 1, Section 1.3.1 Identifying research evidence for systematic reviews) and
          resources that focus on economic studies. These include specialised databases such as
          CRD’s NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED)13 which contains critical abstracts
          of full economic evaluations, alongside bibliographic details of partial evaluations, and
          the Health Economic Evaluations Database (HEED),14 produced by John Wiley and Sons,
          which contains summaries of economic evaluations (full and partial). As both NHS EED
          and HEED solely contain records of economic evaluation the strategy used to search
          these databases need only contain terms related to the subject area. In theory these
          databases should capture all health economic evaluations. However, if it is essential
          that results are as current as possible, additional searches of the most recent updates
          of MEDLINE and EMBASE could be carried out. If this is done the search strategy should
          contain terms for both the subject topic area as well as relevant economics terms.
          Similarly, if other subject specific databases are used, the search strategy should
          combine economic terms with subject terms.
          Search filters are available for a range of study types including economic evaluations.
          The Hedges Project, based at McMaster University and funded by the US National
          Library of Medicine, develops search strategies (‘hedges’) to improve retrieval of study
          reports from large biomedical bibliographic databases such as MEDLINE, EMBASE, and
          CINAHL (http://hiru.mcmaster.ca/hiru/HIRU_Hedges_home.aspx). A range of filters,
          including economic and cost filters, is available, together with research papers providing
          information about how they were developed. The InterTASC Information Specialists’
          Subgroup Search filter resource provides a comprehensive source of filters, including
          a section on economics (www.york.ac.uk/inst/crd/intertasc/econ.htm). The search
          strategies used for the NHS EED database can be found at www.crd.york.ac.uk/crdweb/
          html/help.htm


          5.4          DATA EXTRACTION

          Data extraction should capture the key methodological elements that can impact on
          the results of an economic evaluation. These include: the perspective, the population,
          time horizon, outcomes, discounting, and the techniques employed in conducting the
          economic analysis. Consideration of the care pathway can be helpful in structuring data
          extraction.



          204



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 204                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:38
                                                               Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


               Data extraction requirements are specific to each review question but will need to
               include the following areas:

                  •     Study question, included population, intervention, comparator and setting
                  •     Modelling techniques
                  •     Sources and quality of clinical data
                  •     Sources and quality of cost data
                  •     Study outcomes in terms of health benefits and costs, and the methods used to
                        synthesise them
                  •     Methods for dealing with uncertainty
                  •     Study results, including results of analyses of uncertainty
               Additional study-specific issues may also need to be included. For example, whether
               adverse effects were considered in the cost analysis or if certain health states were
               included in a Markov model.
               If, following the systematic review of economic evaluations, a new primary economic
               analysis is planned, then additional data may need to be extracted to inform the design
               or conduct of that analysis.
               An example data extraction form is presented in Box 5.2.



                  Box 5.2: Example data extraction template

                      Type of economic evaluation
                      Study Objective
                      Interventions
                      Location/Setting
                      Methods                       Analytical approach:
                                                    Effectiveness data:
                                                    Monetary benefit and utility valuations:
                                                    Measure of benefit:
                                                    Cost data:
                                                    Analysis of uncertainty:
                      Results
                      Authors’ conclusions




                                                                                                       205



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 205                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:39
          Systematic Reviews


          5.5          QUALITY ASSESSMENT

          Quality assessment is likely to focus on the following elements of the economic
          evaluation, each of which can have an important impact on the validity of the overall
          results of that study:

              •     Methods of deriving the effectiveness data
              •     Measurement of resource data
              •     Valuation of resource data
              •     Measurement and valuation of health benefits (utilities)
              •     Method of synthesising the costs and effects
              •     Analysis of uncertainty
              •     Generalisability of the results
          This is not an exhaustive list, but an understanding of these issues, which are discussed
          in more detail below, will provide insight into the quality assessment of economic
          evaluations. Quality assessment of decision models is not covered in detail here due to
          the technical nature of the material. It is recommended that more detailed information
          on good practice in decision modelling be consulted.15


          5.5.1        Methods of deriving effectiveness data

          There is a hierarchy of sources of evidence ranging from a formal systematic review to
          expert opinion and authors’ assumptions.16 Where possible economic evaluation should
          use effectiveness data obtained from a systematic review. However, non-systematic
          synthesis of effectiveness data may be justifiable when it is the only available source of
          evidence.
          The type of effectiveness data included in an economic evaluation can vary from a
          single efficacy parameter obtained from a meta-analysis of RCTs to epidemiological data
          mapping the natural history of disease. Quality assessment of the clinical effectiveness
          data incorporated in an economic evaluation will depend on the type of clinical data
          used; whether the data were obtained from a single study or from the literature or from
          expert opinion; and whether modelling techniques were used.
          When the effectiveness data has been derived from a single study, quality assessment
          should be undertaken as described in Chapter 1. However, additional elements will
          also need to be assessed. For example, whether the study time horizon is adequate to
          capture all the relevant health outcomes required and, if statistical modelling techniques
          have been used to extrapolate the data, whether the extrapolation methods and
          assumptions used were appropriate.17
          When the effectiveness data has been synthesised from a variety of sources assessment
          should focus on the quality of the literature review and the methods used to synthesise
          the data including:

              •     Whether a search strategy was used
              •     Which databases were searched


          206



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 206                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:39
                                                             Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


                  •     Whether there were clear inclusion and exclusion criteria
                  •     Whether sufficient information was given about the quality of the included studies


               5.5.2        Cost analysis

               Quality assessment of cost analysis should consider which costs were evaluated in the
               study, the measurement of the associated resource quantities, and the valuation (cost)
               of those resources. Some of the issues that need to be assessed are common to all
               economic evaluations, while others are specific to the type of approach used.


               5.5.2.1 Cost categories

               For any economic evaluation all costs relevant to the study question and the perspective
               adopted or viewpoint from which the analysis has been undertaken should have been
               included. For example patient travel costs are a cost from the patient’s perspective and
               a cost from society’s perspective, but not a cost from the hospital’s perspective.


               Measurement of resources data
               Resource use is measured in physical units such as equipment, staff, dressings and
               drugs. Issues to consider are as follows:

                  •     The sources used to collect resource utilisation data should be reported clearly
                        (e.g. clinical trials, administrative databases, clinical databases, medical records
                        and published literature)
                  •     Resource quantities should be reported independently from the costs, so that
                        assessment of the measurement method is facilitated
                  •     Any assumptions in the measurement of resources should be explicitly reported
                        and justified
                  •     If an expert was consulted to estimate some of the resources, the methods used
                        should be described
               For trial-based economic evaluations, the most valid resource estimates are considered
               to be those collected prospectively alongside effectiveness data, utilising the robust
               infrastructure established for the trial.18
               If resources utilized were identified through a review of the literature, details of the
               process employed to identify and select the patterns of resource utilisation and the
               quantities used should have been given.


               Valuation of resource data
               For the valuation of resources, the relevant issues to consider are as follows:

                  •     All the sources used to obtain unit costs should be reported and be relevant for
                        the specific study setting
                  •     All costs should be adjusted to a specific price year so that the effects of inflation
                        are removed from the cost estimation


                                                                                                          207



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 207                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:39
          Systematic Reviews


              •     If the time horizon for estimating costs was longer than one year, discounting
                    should have been performed in order to reflect time preferences19
              •     If prices were used instead of costs and cost-to-charge ratios calculated these
                    should reflect the true opportunity costs of the strategies compared20


          5.5.3        Measurement and valuation of health benefits (utilities)

          Utilities may be measured using either a generic valuation tool, such as the SF-6D
          or the EQ-5D, or a disease specific tool which may have been obtained using either
          standard gamble or time trade off techniques. Tools differ considerably (a full discussion
          is given in the books by Drummond12 and Brazier21) and choice of tool can impact on the
          results obtained and on their usefulness in priority setting. As a minimum assessment
          should consider who provided the scores (patients, clinicians, general public, etc.),
          which tool was used (EQ-5D, SF-6D, etc.) and when the scores were elicited (at
          baseline, during treatment, after treatment, etc.). A useful overview and comparison of
          the impact of different measures in rheumatoid arthritis is available.22


          5.5.4        Methods of synthesising costs and effects

          The true economic value of an intervention compared to another depends on the
          additional costs and benefits. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are the ratios
          that capture this relative value. Unless a treatment is clearly dominant (both cheaper
          and more effective), incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) should have been
          calculated as this is the only appropriate way of capturing the true economic value.12
          A paper should report sufficient data to ascertain dominance from the figures given,
          rather than relying on a statement from the authors which can be made in error and
          be potentially misleading. Cost-effectiveness results should have been reported in both
          a disaggregated and an aggregated way. That is, undiscounted and discounted health
          benefit and cost results should have been reported both separately and as part of the
          ICERs. It is also appropriate to report the net benefit statistic, which is sometimes used
          to overcome the statistical issues raised when dealing with a ratio, like the ICER.


          5.5.5        Analysis of uncertainty

          A well-conducted economic evaluation should investigate as thoroughly as possible, the
          following sources of uncertainty:

              •     Parameter uncertainty, which occurs because parameters are estimated from
                    samples and their true value is unknown
              •     Methodological uncertainty, which arises from the analytical methods used in the
                    evaluation, particularly where there is disagreement around the methods used
                    (e.g. the inclusion of indirect costs, discounting of health benefits, discount rate)
              •     Modelling uncertainty which can arise due to the simplifying assumptions that are
                    often required to facilitate modelling




          208



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 208                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:39
                                                           Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


               Methods of evaluating uncertainty include statistical comparisons, bootstrapping,
               sensitivity analyses (one-way or multi-way sensitivity analyses, threshold analyses and
               analyses of extremes or worst/best case analysis) and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
               The method(s) employed will vary depending on what is being assessed and the types
               of data that were used as input parameters in the economic evaluation.


               5.5.5.1 Statistical comparisons

               Statistical tests comparing effects, costs or cost-effectiveness are appropriate for
               studies that have derived their effectiveness and costs from patient level data. The
               quality assessment of the statistical comparisons performed should focus on the
               appropriateness of the type of tests used and the results reported (e.g. 95% confidence
               intervals; p-values).


               5.5.5.2 Bootstrapping

               Bootstrapping is a statistical method that can be applied to capture uncertainty where
               patient level data are used.23 Due to the fact that the ICER is a ratio, normal parametric
               statistical methods based on the standard error cannot be used. Non-parametric
               bootstrapping is an alternative method which allows a comparison of the arithmetic
               means without making any assumptions about the sampling distribution. However, it
               should be noted that economic evaluations can use a net benefit statistic rather than an
               ICER to overcome the statistical problems associated with a ratio.24


               5.5.5.3 Sensitivity analysis - parameter uncertainty

               Sensitivity analyses of parameter uncertainty are usual in economic evaluations that
               obtain their data from systematic or other reviews. The aim of the sensitivity analyses is
               to evaluate the sensitivity of the results to changes in the parameter estimates. N-way
               sensitivity analyses and threshold analysis can only vary a few parameters at the same
               time in practice. In contrast, probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) (see below) can vary
               all parameters at the same time, subject to data availability.
               The following issues should be assessed:

                  •     Whether the parameters chosen were justified
                  •     Whether variations were performed across meaningful ranges of values
                  •     Whether the robustness of the results was assessed according to a previously
                        agreed level of ‘acceptable variation’


               5.5.5.4 Sensitivity analysis - methodological uncertainty

               Uncertainty around analytical methods is also assessed through the use of sensitivity
               analysis. For example, the impact of different discount rates and the use of discounting
               (or not) on health benefits should have been assessed in studies with a long time
               horizon.


                                                                                                       209



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 209                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:40
          Systematic Reviews




              Box 5.3: Checklist for assessing economic evaluations

              Study design
              1. Was the research question stated?
              2. Was the economic importance of the research question stated?
              3. Was/were the viewpoint(s) of the analysis clearly stated and justified?
              4. Was a rationale reported for the choice of the alternative programmes or
                 interventions compared?
              5. Were the alternatives being compared clearly described?
              6. Was the form of economic evaluation stated?
              7. Was the choice of form of economic evaluation justified in relation to the
                 questions addressed?
              Data collection
              8. Was/were the source(s) of effectiveness estimates used stated?
              9. Were details of the design and results of the effectiveness study given (if
                 based on a single study)?
              10. Were details of the methods of synthesis or meta-analysis of estimates given
                  (if based on an overview of several effectiveness studies)?
              11. Were the primary outcome measure(s) for the economic evaluation clearly
                  stated?
              12. Were the methods used to value health states and other benefits stated?
              13. Were the details of the subjects from whom valuations were obtained given?
              14. Were productivity changes (if included) reported separately?
              15. Was the relevance of productivity changes to the study question discussed?
              16. Were quantities of resources reported separately from their unit cost?
              17. Were the methods for the estimation of quantities and unit costs described?
              18. Were currency and price data recorded?
              19. Were details of price adjustments for inflation or currency conversion given?
              20. Were details of any model used given?
              21. Was there a justification for the choice of model used and the key parameters
                  on which it was based?
                                                                                       (Continued)




          210



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 210                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:40
                                                           Systematic reviews of economic evaluations




                  Analysis and interpretation of results
                  22. Was time horizon of cost and benefits stated?
                  23. Was the discount rate stated?
                  24. Was the choice of rate justified?
                  25. Was an explanation given if cost or benefits were not discounted?
                  26. Were the details of statistical test(s) and confidence intervals given for
                      stochastic data?
                  27. Was the approach to sensitivity analysis described?
                  28. Was the choice of variables for sensitivity analysis justified?
                  29. Were the ranges over which the parameters were varied stated?
                  30. Were relevant alternatives compared? (i.e. Were appropriate comparisons
                      made when conducting the incremental analysis?)
                  31. Was an incremental analysis reported?
                  32. Were major outcomes presented in a disaggregated as well as aggregated
                      form?
                  33. Was the answer to the study question given?
                  34. Did conclusions follow from the data reported?
                  35. Were conclusions accompanied by the appropriate caveats?
                  36. Were generalisability issues addressed?
                  Based on Drummond’s checklist27



               5.5.5.5 Probabilistic sensitivity analyses

               This method can only be used to deal with parameter uncertainty in modelling-based
               economic evaluations. PSA, also referred to as second-order uncertainty, considers
               the uncertainty surrounding the value of a parameter. This is achieved by assigning
               a probability distribution rather than a point estimate to each parameter. The quality
               assessment in this case should focus on whether:

                  •     Appropriate distributions were assigned to the model parameters6, 25
                  •     Relevant assumptions were tested. For example, assumptions about model
                        structure or interpretation of the available evidence12




                                                                                                    211



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 211                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:40
          Systematic Reviews


          5.5.6        Generalisability of the results

          Generalisability refers to the extent to which the results obtained can be applied to
          different settings. The relevance of the intervention, the patient population and the
          resources which have been included in the economic evaluation will determine whether
          the results can be generalised. Uncertainty regarding the generalisability of the results
          to the relevant study setting would usually be assessed through sensitivity analyses. A
          useful discussion on this issue is available.26


          5.5.7        Use of checklists to assess the quality of economic evaluations

          Several reliable, comprehensive, and easy to use checklists are available to guide
          the quality assessment of economic evaluations. The most widely used is the BMJ
          checklist.27 Both a 10-item version and an expanded 35-item version are available. In
          addition, a 36th item relating to generalisability may be added if it is relevant to the
          review (see Box 5.3). Although, this checklist does not provide detailed coverage of
          some issues relevant to modelling studies, it can be augmented using specific items
          such as model type, structural assumptions, time horizon, cycle length and health
          states. Alternatively, a checklist developed to assess the quality of the models used in
          economic evaluations can be used as a complement to the BMJ checklist.15
          In some cases the validity of an economic evaluation may be difficult to assess due to
          limitations in reporting, an issue common to many studies and covered in Chapter 1.


          5.5.8        Quality scoring systems

          Several quality scoring systems have been devised for use in assessing the
          methodological quality of economic evaluations. These are generally based on
          completing checklists, assigning values to the different items considered, and summing
          these values to obtain a final score, which is intended to reflect the quality of the
          appraised study.
          Six published quality scoring systems for economic evaluations have been identified, but
          none of these are considered to be sufficiently valid and reliable for use as a method of
          quality assessment.28 Given the limitations presented by quality scoring systems, their
          use is not recommended. Rather, it is preferable to present a checklist or a descriptive
          critical assessment based on appropriate guidelines or checklists, which should describe
          the methods and results, strengths and weaknesses and the implications of the
          strengths and weaknesses on the reliability of the conclusions.


          5.6          DATA SYNTHESIS

          Synthesis should begin with descriptive comparisons of the study question, methods
          and results. It may be useful to include summary tables which present key information
          relating to population, country, perspective, comparison of interventions, measure of
          benefit and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. An example is given in Table 5.1. The
          range of incremental cost-effectiveness ratios should be presented and the reliability


          212



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 212                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:40
                                                                    Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


               (internal validity) and relevance (generalisability) of the estimates should be explored.
               The analytical approaches used in the studies should be compared and their robustness
               discussed, for example, whether the studies used the same type of modelling technique
               and the same model structure.
               This can be developed further and the results of the original cost-effectiveness studies
               adjusted to conform to standard methods specified for a given setting, in order that
               study results can be compared more readily. In its simplest form, this may involve
               converting the currency of the cost estimates. However, if adequate detail is reported,
               local unit costs appropriate to the review could be substituted for the unit costs used
               in the individual studies.29 This would depend on the amount of disaggregated data
               reported in the individual economic evaluations and the heterogeneity across studies.
               The more disaggregated and homogenous the data, the easier and more feasible it
               would be to adjust the results. Theoretically, a meta-analysis of economic evaluations
               could be done. However, this is not straightforward and would require input from an
               experienced health economist.30, 31 In practice, economic evaluations addressing a
               particular question are often heterogeneous and published reports do not generally
               present sufficient detail to permit such adjustments.


               Table 5.1: Example summary table

                                                                                             Measure
               Author             Population     Country      Perspective      Interventions of benefit      Results

               Bolin K.32         Smokers aged   Sweden       Societal         Bupropion        QALY         SEK23,400/
                                  35 or older                                  Nicotine                      QALY gained
                                                                               replacement                   for men for
                                                                               therapy                       bupropion
                                                                                                             SEK16,600/
                                                                                                             QALY gained
                                                                                                             for women
                                                                                                             for bupropion
               Cornuz J.33        Smokers aged   Canada       Third-party      Bupropion        Life years   CA$792/life
                                  45, 20 cigs                 payer            Counselling                   year gained
                                  per day                                      Replacement                   for men for
                                                                               therapies                     bupropion
               Nielsen K.34       Smokers in     USA          Employer         Sustained-       Quit rate    30.3% quit rate
                                  cessation                                    release                       and $163.49/
                                  programme                                    bupropion                     person for
                                                                               Nicotine patch                bupropion
                                                                               Both                          16.4% quit rate
                                                                                                             and $245.22/
                                                                                                             person for
                                                                                                             nicotine patch
                                                                                                             35.5% quit rate
                                                                                                             and $408.71/
                                                                                                             person for both

               SEK = Swedish Kroner            CA$ = Canadian Dollars       $ = US dollars




                                                                                                                        213



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 213                                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:41
          Systematic Reviews


          5.7          REPORTING

          Readers of the systematic review may well include non-economists so the results of the
          cost-effectiveness analyses need to be presented as clearly as possible. For example, it
          may be useful to report the absolute and incremental costs and effectiveness as well as
          the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios as these may be more readily understood. In
          Table 5.1, the absolute quit rates (where reported) are given alongside the incremental
          cost-effectiveness ratios.



              Summary: Systematic reviews of economic evaluations

              •    The inclusion criteria for a review of effectiveness and a review of economic
                   evaluations are likely to overlap, however, additional specific criteria may be
                   needed ranging from the source of cost and clinical evidence to the use of a
                   modelling approach.
              •    Preference based values of health outcomes as well as disease-specific
                   measures should be considered when forming the inclusion criteria.
              •    Sources searched for economic evaluations should include specialised
                   databases of economic evaluations such as NHS EED and HEED.
              •    The BMJ checklist is the most general quality assessment tool. However, the
                   study question and inclusion criteria may well require a more specific quality
                   assessment checklist.
              •    Identified economic evaluations are usually too heterogeneous and are
                   unlikely to report adequate details for a meta-analysis of results. A narrative
                   synthesis is usual.
              •    Disaggregated results should be reported as well as incremental cost-
                   effectiveness ratios in order to facilitate the interpretation of the results.




          214



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 214                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:41
                                                           Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


               REFERENCES

               1. Lavis J, Davies H, Oxman A, Denis JL, Golden-Biddle K, Ferlie E. Towards systematic
               reviews that inform health care management and policy-making. J Health Serv Res
               Policy 2005;10 Suppl 1:35-48.
               2. National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. Guide to the methods of
               technology appraisal. June 2008. London: National Institute for Health and Clinical
               Excellence; 2008.
               3. Rodgers M, McKenna C, Palmer S, Chambers D, Van Hout S, Golder S, et al. Curative
               catheter ablation in atrial fibrillation and typical atrial flutter: systematic review and
               economic evaluation [in press]. Health Technol Assess 2008.
               4. Woolacott NF, Jones L, Forbes CA, Mather LC, Sowdon AJ, Song FJ, et al. The clinical
               effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy for
               smoking cessation: a systematic review and economic evaluation. Health Technol Assess
               2002;6:1-245.
               5. Wilby J, Kainth A, Hawkins N, Epstein D, McIntosh H, McDaid C, et al. Clinical
               effectiveness, tolerability and cost-effectiveness of newer drugs for epilepsy in adults: a
               systematic review and economic evaluation. Health Technol Assess 2005;9:1-172.
               6. Briggs A, Claxton K, Sculpher M. Decision modelling for health economic evaluation.
               Oxford: Oxford University Press; 2006.
               7. Donaldson C, Mugford M, Vale L, editors. Evidence-based health economics from
               effectiveness to efficiency in systematic review. London: BMJ Books, 2002.
               8. Anderson R. Systematic reviews of economic evaluations: utility or futility?
               [submitted].
               9. Carande-Kulis VG, Maciosek MV, Briss PA, Teutsch SM, Zaza S, Truman BI, et al.
               Methods for systematic reviews of economic evaluations for the Guide to Community
               Preventive Services. Task Force on Community Preventive Services. Am J Prev Med
               2000;18:75-91.
               10. Schwappach DL, Boluarte TA, Suhrcke M. The economics of primary prevention of
               cardiovascular disease - a systematic review of economic evaluations. Cost Eff Resour
               Alloc 2007;5:5.
               11. Barham L, Lewis D, Latimer N. One to one interventions to reduce sexually
               transmitted infections and under the age of 18 conceptions: a systematic review of the
               economic evaluations. Sex Transm Infect 2007;83:441-6.
               12. Drummond MF, Sculpher MJ, Torrance GW, O’Brien BJ, Stoddart GL. Methods
               for economic health evaluation of health care programmes. 3rd ed. Oxford: Oxford
               University Press; 2005.
               13. Centre for Reviews and Dissemination. NHS EED (NHS Economic Evaluation
               Database) [internet]. York: Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York;
               [cited 2008 9 Sep]. Available from: www.crd.york.ac.uk/crdweb/




                                                                                                      215



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 215                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:41
          Systematic Reviews


          14. HEED: Health Economic Evaluations Database [internet]. Chichester: John Wiley &
          Sons Ltd; [cited 2008 22 Apr]. Available from: www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/
          mrwhome/114130635/HOME
          15. Philips Z, Ginnelly L, Sculpher M, Claxton K, Golder S, Riemsma R, et al. Review
          of guidelines for good practice in decision-analytic modelling in health technology
          assessment. Health Technol Assess 2004;8:1-158.
          16. Phillips B, Ball C, Sackett D, Badenoch D, Straus S, Haynes B, et al. Oxford Centre
          for Evidence-based Medicine Levels of Evidence (May 2001); 2001. Available from:
          www.cebm.net/index.aspx?o=1025
          17. Collett D. Modelling survival data in medical research. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC
          Press; 2003.
          18. Glick H, Podolsky D, Schulamn K. Trial-based economic evaluations: an overview
          of design and analysis. In: Drummond MF, McGuire A, editors. Economic evaluation in
          health care: merging theory with practice. Oxford: Oxford University Press; 2001. p.
          113-40.
          19. Krahn M, Gafni A. Discounting in the economic evaluation of health care
          interventions. Med Care 1993;31:403-18.
          20. Finkler SA. The distinction between costs and charges. Ann Intern Med
          1982;96:102-9.
          21. Brazier J, Ratcliffe J, Salomon J, Tsuchiya A. Measuring and valuing health benefits
          for economic evaluation. Oxford: Oxford University Press; 2008.
          22. Marra CA, Woolcott JC, Kopec JA, Shojania K, Offer R, Brazier JE, et al. A
          comparison of generic, indirect utility measures (the HUI2, HUI3, SF-6D, and the EQ-
          5D) and disease-specific instruments (the RAQoL and the HAQ) in rheumatoid arthritis.
          Soc Sci Med 2005;60:1571-82.
          23. Briggs AH, Wonderling DE, Mooney CZ. Pulling cost-effectiveness analysis up by its
          bootstraps: a non-parametric approach to confidence interval estimation. Health Econ
          1998;6:327-40
          24. Briggs AH, O’Brien BJ, Blackhouse G. Thinking outside the box: recent advances
          in the analysis and presentation of uncertainty in cost-effectiveness studies. Annu Rev
          Public Health 2002;23:377-401.
          25. Thomson SG, Nixon RM. How sensitive are cost-effectiveness analyses to choice of
          parametric distributions? Med Decis Making 2005;25:416-23.
          26. Boulenger S, Nixon J, Drummond M, Ulmann P, Rice S, de Pouvourville G. Can
          economic evaluations be made more transferable? Eur J Health Econ 2005;6:334-46.
          27. Drummond MF, Jefferson TO. Guidelines for authors and peer reviewers of
          economic submissions to the BMJ. The BMJ Economic Evaluation Working Party. BMJ
          1996;313:275-83.
          28. Thurston SJ, Craig D, Wilson P, Drummond MF. Increasing decision-makers’ access
          to economic evaluations: alternative methods of communicating the information. Int J
          Technol Assess Health Care 2008;24:151-7.


          216



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 216                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:41
                                                          Systematic reviews of economic evaluations


               29. Jefferson T, Demicheli V, Vale L. Quality of systematic reviews of economic
               evaluations in health care. JAMA 2002;287:2809-12.
               30. Shemilt I, Mugford M, Byford S, Drummond M, Eisenstein E, Knapp M, et al. The
               Campbell Collaboration economics methods policy brief. Version 1.0 - April 2008:
               The Campbell Collaboration; 2008. Available from: www.campbellcollaboration.org/
               resources/methods_policy_briefs.php
               31. Shemilt I, Mugford M, Byford S, Drummond M, Eisenstein E, Knapp M, et al. Chapter
               15: Incorporating economics evidence. In: Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane
               Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions Version 5.0.0 (updated February
               2008): The Cochrane Collaboration; 2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org
               32. Bolin K LB, Willers S. The cost utility of bupropion in smoking cessation health
               programs: simulation model results for Sweden. Chest 2006;129:651-60.
               33. Cornuz J, Gilbert A, Pinget C, McDonald P, Slama K, Salto E, et al. Cost-effectiveness
               of pharmacotherapies for nicotine dependence in primary care settings: a multinational
               comparison. Tob Control 2006;15:152-9.
               34. Nielsen K, Fiore MC. Cost-benefit analysis of sustained-release bupropion, nicotine
               patch, or both for smoking cessation. Prev Med 2000;30:209-16.




                                                                                                      217



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 217                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:42
          218



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 218   8/1/09 09:29:42
               CHAPTER 6
               INCORPORATING QUALITATIVE EVIDENCE IN OR
               ALONGSIDE EFFECTIVENESS REVIEWS



               6.1 INTRODUCTION                                                221
               6.2 WHAT IS QUALITATIVE RESEARCH?                               221
                   6.2.1 Options for utilising qualitative research            222
               6.3 IDENTIFICATION OF QUALITATIVE STUDIES                       223
                   6.3.1 Using bibliographic databases                         223
                   6.3.2 Other sources                                         224
                   6.3.3 Sampling methods                                      224
               6.4 ASSESSMENT OF QUALITATIVE RESEARCH                          225
                   6.4.1 How should quality be assessed?                       225
                   6.4.2 How should quality assessment be used?                227
                   6.4.3 When should quality assessment be carried out?        227
               6.5 SYNTHESIS OF QUALITATIVE RESEARCH                           228
                   6.5.1 Methods of synthesis                                  229
               6.6 USING QUALITATIVE FINDINGS TO HELP EXPLAIN, INTERPRET AND
                   IMPLEMENT FINDINGS FROM EFFECTIVENESS REVIEWS               230
                   6.6.1 Findings from one or more qualitative studies         230
                   6.6.2 Findings from a synthesis of qualitative studies      230
                   6.6.3 Combining qualitative and quantitative syntheses      231
               6.7 FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS                                         232
               REFERENCES                                                      233




                                                                               219



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 219                                                 8/1/09 09:29:42
          220



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 220   8/1/09 09:29:42
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               6.1          INTRODUCTION

               This chapter focuses on the identification, assessment and synthesis of qualitative
               studies to help explain, interpret and implement the findings from effectiveness
               reviews. There is growing recognition of the contribution that qualitative research
               can make to reviews of effectiveness, particularly in relation to understanding the
               what, how and why.1 This includes shaping questions of importance to end users,
               understanding the mechanisms behind effectiveness or ineffectiveness, understanding
               heterogeneous results, identifying factors that impact on the implementation of an
               intervention, describing the experience of people receiving the interventions, and
               providing participants’ subjective evaluations of outcomes. For example, what is it
               about the workings of a stroke unit that result in better survival rates? What elements
               of a community-based programme to prevent falls enable older people to retain their
               independence? How was the process of care perceived and what counts as a successful
               outcome for those receiving the intervention? An approach that uses qualitative
               research to address questions such as these helps to ensure that reviews are of
               maximum value in the decision-making process.
               Despite recognition of the importance of qualitative research to effectiveness reviews,
               so far the number of available examples is relatively small. Poor availability may reflect
               a relative lack of interest in applying review methods to qualitative research and/or lack
               of consensus about whether it is appropriate to do so. In recent years new approaches
               and techniques for reviewing qualitative studies have emerged, although debates about
               appropriateness continue. Because review methods are not well-developed or tested
               we outline various options for consideration, and provide references which should
               be consulted where more detailed information is required. We also include worked
               examples; where possible these have been selected because they are directly linked or
               related to reviews of effectiveness. But because these are few in number, other types of
               example are included, such as stand-alone reviews of qualitative research.
               The process for reviewing qualitative studies has been argued to be an iterative
               one which might not proceed in a linear way.2, 3 So, although we have chosen to
               structure the chapter according to the recognised stages in a systematic review (study
               identification, quality assessment and synthesis), in practice the process may deviate.


               6.2          WHAT IS QUALITATIVE RESEARCH?

               Qualitative research is concerned with the subjective world and offers insight into
               social, emotional, and experiential phenomena.4 The aim is to draw out understandings
               and perceptions, to explore the features of settings and culture and to understand
               the linkages between process and outcomes. Most qualitative studies are small
               scale, focusing on a single or small number of cases, and they provide depth and
               contextualised detail. Qualitative research is not a single method but includes a range
               of designs such as interviews, direct observation, analysis of texts/documents or of
               audio/video recorded speech or behaviour.2, 5 Choice of method is often determined by a
               particular theoretical perspective, such as phenomenology which provides a framework
               for the research.2




                                                                                                     221



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 221                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:42
          Systematic Reviews


          More recently, the relevance of qualitative research to the assessment of health
          interventions, especially those that are complex, has been recognised. As a result
          qualitative and quantitative methods are increasingly being used together in primary
          evaluative research (mixed-method). For example qualitative methods have been used
          to understand participants’ experiences in a trial evaluating a computerised decision
          support tool for patients with atrial fibrillation being considered for anti-coagulation
          treatment.6 The main reason for the adoption of mixed-methods in primary research is
          to enhance relevance in the decision-making process.
          Important to note is that some primarily quantitative studies provide information of a
          qualitative form such as observations or quotes, which are unlikely to be the result of a
          formal research process. Sometimes no detail is reported of how these ‘data’ have been
          collected or analysed and researchers need to be cautious if using such information.
          This issue has been discussed with respect to the implementation of community-based
          interventions to reduce unintentional injuries in children and young people.7


          6.2.1        Options for utilising qualitative research

          The approach to utilising qualitative research needs to be decided at an early stage, as
          it will impact on subsequent stages of the review, especially searching and synthesis.
          Outlined below are three options for including qualitative evidence in/alongside
          quantitative effectiveness reviews; the first offers a more informal approach; the second
          involves a formal synthesis of the qualitative findings. Both options treat qualitative
          and quantitative evidence as complementary with the qualitative evidence offering an
          explanation for, and interpretation of, the quantitative findings; the third combines the
          findings from the quantitative and qualitative syntheses. Used in this way the qualitative
          evidence does not contribute directly to the effectiveness data. If researchers are
          interested in including both quantitative and qualitative research to address questions
          of effectiveness they might consider using techniques or approaches capable of
          combining different types of research evidence such as Bayesian meta-analysis,8 critical
          interpretive synthesis9 or realist synthesis.10, 11 There are also a number of useful guides
          discussing various methods for synthesising complex bodies of evidence.2, 12

              Option 1. Use the findings from one or more qualitative studies in the discussion and
                        interpretation of the results of the quantitative studies to help make sense
                        of, or place the review findings in context. Usually (although not always)
                        the qualitative evidence will be linked to the quantitative studies included
                        in the effectiveness review. Qualitative and quantitative evidence might be
                        included in the same publication or in separate but associated publications.
              Option 2. Undertake a review of qualitative studies alongside the review of
                        quantitative studies and use the formal qualitative synthesis to interpret
                        the findings of the quantitative synthesis (sometimes referred to as
                        parallel synthesis). Researchers might choose to include qualitative
                        research embedded within the quantitative studies or stand-alone
                        qualitative studies that address the question of interest.
              Option 3. Where reviews of both quantitative and qualitative evidence are
                        undertaken there is also the option to combine the results of the two
                        syntheses. This approach is sometimes referred to as multi-level,
                        sequenced, cross-design or meta-synthesis.2, 13

          222



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 222                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:42
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               6.3          IDENTIFICATION OF QUALITATIVE STUDIES

               In line with the three options discussed in Section 6.2.1 Options for utilising qualitative
               research, researchers can choose to include qualitative evidence that is embedded
               within quantitative studies (i.e. mixed-method) or associated with the quantitative
               evaluation, or choose to include qualitative studies that address issues of direct
               relevance, but are not linked or associated with the quantitative evaluation.
               A search for quantitative studies will often identify associated or linked studies using
               qualitative methods. However relying solely on this approach is questionable, as the
               studies are identified by chance rather than in a structured systematic way.14 A very
               broad approach can be used, where the search strategy consists solely of subject
               and topic terms without specifying the study type(s) of interest. Both quantitative
               and qualitative studies would be identified, but this method is likely to result in large
               numbers of records being retrieved. This approach is routinely used at the EPPI-Centre15
               when carrying out linked systematic reviews of qualitative and quantitative studies.


               6.3.1        Using bibliographic databases

               The methods and tools available to identify qualitative studies, especially from electronic
               databases are much less well developed than those available for identifying quantitative
               studies, especially RCTs.16 There are as yet no registers of qualitative studies, nor do
               existing RCT registers record whether qualitative data were also collected.
               Qualitative research may be given a descriptive or creative title that makes retrieval
               using standard search techniques difficult. Database abstracts, where included, are
               often not structured and can have variable content, which further complicates their
               identification.17 Many studies lack an abstract; for example a search for qualitative
               studies on support for breastfeeding found that 23 per cent of the records screened did
               not include an abstract.18 This means that many full papers will need to be retrieved to
               make decisions about inclusion, as in a review of adherence to tuberculosis treatment
               where over 600 full text articles were screened.19
               There are differences in how qualitative research is, and has been, indexed in electronic
               databases that have implications for searching. While MEDLINE introduced the subject
               heading ‘qualitative research’ in 2003, CINAHL has had a wide range of detailed subject
               headings suitable for indexing qualitative research for much longer. For example, the
               headings ‘qualitative studies’ and ’grounded theory’ were both introduced in 1988.
               Assuming that the topic of interest falls within their scope, then searching both
               MEDLINE and CINAHL is likely to be important. For CINAHL using broad free text terms
               – ‘qualitative’, ‘findings’, ‘interviews’ – in conjunction with topic specific thesaurus terms
               may be adequate to identify qualitative studies.20
               When searching electronic databases it is important to be aware that uncertainty
               remains about how consistently the term ‘qualitative research’ is being used.21
               The indexing of qualitative papers is generally viewed as less accurate than the indexing
               of quantitative studies, both in terms of whether suitable index terms are available and
               whether they have been applied correctly.22 In a comparison of three strategies across
               six databases – using thesaurus terms, free-text terms and broad-based terms – only


                                                                                                         223



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 223                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:43
          Systematic Reviews


          four per cent of records were actually relevant, and all three strategies had to be used
          in combination to avoid missing potentially relevant records.22 The identification of a
          high proportion of irrelevant studies is likely to be due in part to poor indexing.
          Search filters for identifying qualitative research are available for use in a number
          of electronic databases. For researchers wishing to use existing search filters, two
          resources are particularly helpful. The Hedges Project, based at McMaster University and
          funded by the US National Library of Medicine, develops search strategies (‘hedges’)
          to improve retrieval of study reports from large biomedical bibliographic databases
          such as MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, and CINAHL. A range of filters is available for
          each database, together with information about the research papers underlying the
          development of the filter (http://hiru.mcmaster.ca/hiru/HIRU_Hedges_home.aspx).
          The webpages are arranged by database so, for example, on the pages about MEDLINE
          a number of qualitative filters of varying degrees of sensitivity, specificity, accuracy
          and precision are presented in a tabular format. Where the aim is to comprehensively
          identify all papers on a topic, a filter with high sensitivity should be selected. If it is
          of less importance to identify all papers, a filter with high precision will usually be
          appropriate. Reading the accompanying research paper that describes the development
          of each filter can help researchers to choose the filter that is most appropriate.
          The InterTASC Information Specialists’ Sub-Group (ISSG) Search Filter Resource offers
          another useful website (www.york.ac.uk/inst/crd/intertasc/). The ISSG is a group of
          information professionals supporting research groups within England and Scotland
          producing technology assessments for NICE. This resource includes a wider range of
          filters than the Hedges Project, but in some cases the filter is not displayed in full on the
          website, although details of where it is published are given.


          6.3.2        Other sources

          Given the identified deficiencies in the indexing of studies and in the study filters
          currently available, additional techniques such as Internet searching, personal contact
          with researchers, handsearching and reference checking are important (see Chapter 1).


          6.3.3        Sampling methods

          There is currently no consensus as to whether the searches undertaken to identify
          qualitative studies need to be as comprehensive in their coverage as those undertaken
          to identify quantitative studies, although they should be as systematic, explicit and
          reproducible as possible.23
          Where the number of available studies may be simply too large to work through,
          researchers may decide to adopt a strategy for limiting the number of included studies.
          Options include purposive and/or theoretical sampling where papers are selected for
          inclusion on the basis of particular criteria such as rich description or conceptual clarity.
          Alternatively, random sampling can be used. Examples of purposive sampling are
          provided in reviews of caring24 and access to health care.9
          The search strategy and, where used, the methods for sampling need to be documented
          clearly. It is important to outline the steps taken and discuss the potential impact of


          224



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 224                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:43
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               any limitations. Proposed standards for reporting literature searches are available, and
               provide a useful resource.25


               6.4          ASSESSMENT OF QUALITATIVE RESEARCH

               The application of quality criteria to qualitative research is widely debated, although
               many accept the need for clear and transparent approaches for judging the quality or
               credibility of research. For example, it has been noted that the distinguishing mark of
               all ‘good’ research is the awareness and acknowledgement of error and, that what flows
               from this is the necessity of establishing procedures which will minimize the effect such
               errors may have on what counts as knowledge.26 It is less clear whether consensus can
               be reached over an agreed set of principles for judging quality. Qualitative researchers
               from different disciplines and from different theoretical backgrounds may have
               different criteria for assessing the quality of a study.27 Some argue that quality cannot
               be determined by following prescribed formulas28 or that it is fruitless to try to set
               standards for qualitative research as such.29 Others, accepting the need for structured
               procedures, argue for more rigorous use and reporting of analytical approaches which
               improve reliability and validity.30 Others have suggested there are general questions
               that can be asked to judge validity and reliability in qualitative research, but that these
               are not readily codified.31 It has also been argued that quality assessment should take
               account of theory in the design of the research, analysis, and interpretation of the
               data.32


               6.4.1        How should quality be assessed?

               Despite lack of consensus about quality assessment a number of different tools
               and techniques are now available. Over one hundred sets of proposals on quality in
               qualitative research have been identified,33 a subset of which have been reviewed,34
               including five that were developed specifically for use in systematic reviews.35-39 The
               majority of tools available are generic, and to date there have been few attempts to
               develop method specific approaches. This is despite arguments that different qualitative
               methods need to be appraised in different ways.40
               Some issues in using structured approaches were illustrated in a recent study.41 Two
               structured methods – the Critical Appraisal Skills Programme (CASP) tool,42 and the
               Quality Framework34 – were systematically compared with an approach based on
               unprompted judgement (where experienced qualitative researchers relied on their
               own expertise to make judgements of quality). Each approach was used to assess
               twelve qualitative studies investigating support for breastfeeding. Agreement between
               researchers and between methods was slight, and importantly researchers disagreed
               on the quality of the studies, whether papers were actually reporting qualitative
               research and whether the study was relevant to the review question. Because answering
               questions about quality is largely a subjective process involving judgement, it may lead
               to differences both between researchers and methods.




                                                                                                      225



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 225                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:43
          Systematic Reviews


          In addition, the Quality Framework was criticised for its length and complexity, which is
          likely to impact on its use in future systematic reviews. The authors identified a need for
          continued debate and empirical research into the use of quality assessment. Similarly,
          the authors of a recent review who attempted to apply two different quality frameworks,
          concluded that further methodological work is needed to produce clear guidance about
          how quality appraisal should be undertaken.32
          An innovative approach, developed to appraise qualitative studies for inclusion in
          a set of reviews focusing on peoples’ experiences and perspectives, uses generic
          methodological quality criteria tailored to the specific review question.43 It is designed
          to help researchers assess to what extent studies may have distorted, misrepresented
          or simply missed people’s experiences and perspectives. The authors have published a
          series of reports that outline how the approach has been applied in practice.44, 45



              Box 6.1: Appraisal tools

              Popay, Rogers & Williams (1998)39          Primary question relates to the
                                                         appropriateness of the methods used.
                                                         This is followed by a detailed assessment
                                                         of methodological soundness.
              Critical Appraisal Skills Programme        10 questions relating to rigour, credibility
              (1998)42                                   and relevance.
              Quality Framework (2003)34                 18 questions relating to 9 key areas:
                                                         findings; design; sample; data
                                                         collection; analysis; reporting;
                                                         reflexivity and neutrality; ethics and
                                                         auditability.
              Prompts for appraising qualitative         Generic set of prompts relating to aspects
              research (2004)33                          of reporting and aspects of study design
                                                         and execution.
              Long & Godfrey (2004)38                    A tool to explore descriptive and evaluative
                                                         elements of a study. 34 questions across
                                                         4 key areas: phenomenon studied and
                                                         context; ethics; data collection, analysis and
                                                         potential researcher bias; policy and
                                                         practice implications.
              Walsh & Downe (2006)48                     Set of prompts relating to 8 key areas:
                                                         scope and purpose; design; sampling
                                                         strategy; analysis; interpretation;
                                                         reflexivity; ethical dimensions; relevance
                                                         and transferability.




          226



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 226                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:43
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               A structured review of reports published between 1988 and 2004, appraising and
               synthesising qualitative studies in health and health care is available.46 The authors
               found that over 60% of the 42 reviews included either explicitly stated that quality
               appraisal was not carried out or failed to report any appraisal of studies. Interestingly
               where quality appraisal was used, in all but one case the instrument or criteria were
               modified, suggesting that available methods are difficult to apply in practice. Others
               have opted to construct their own criteria for assessing rigor as part of the review
               process.47
               Box 6.1 lists some of the different appraisal tools that have been developed explicitly
               for use in systematic reviews and/or have been used for that purpose (this is not a
               comprehensive list). Researchers interested in carrying out quality assessment, might
               consider using one or more of these tools.


               6.4.2        How should quality assessment be used?

               Quality assessment has been used to establish a quality threshold below which studies
               will be excluded, or to distinguish between studies in terms of overall contribution.32, 36, 49
               There is no consensus as to which approach is preferable. Quality assessment can also
               be used to gain an understanding of the relative strengths and weaknesses of the body
               of evidence and taken into account during the process of synthesis.
               Some have reported that better quality studies appear to make stronger contributions to
               the synthesis19, 49 or that weaker studies contribute nothing substantially different from
               the stronger studies.32 Sensitivity analysis has been used to explore the relationship
               between the quality of qualitative studies and contribution to review findings.50 The
               analysis was based on 62 primary studies from five reviews, and suggested that
               studies judged to be of low quality contributed little to the overall review findings. This
               appears to be the first attempt to apply sensitivity analysis to the question of quality
               in qualitative research and further assessment is required. However, the findings are
               consistent with the more descriptive accounts offered about study quality and overall
               contribution to synthesis.19, 32, 49


               6.4.3        When should quality assessment be carried out?

               The use of quality assessment is further complicated by debate around when it
               should be carried out. The need for appraisal of studies before the synthesis has been
               queried.51 The authors of one qualitative synthesis reported that the necessity of prior
               quality appraisal was a moot point.36 They did go on to comment however that the
               appraisal process was a useful prelude to the synthesis because it helped to screen
               out inappropriate and poor quality studies. Clearly, if quality assessment is to be used
               to establish a quality threshold then assessment will need to take place before the
               synthesis.




                                                                                                         227



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 227                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:44
          Systematic Reviews


          6.5          SYNTHESIS OF QUALITATIVE RESEARCH

          This section focuses on the formal synthesis of qualitative research. General debate
          about the appropriateness of combining qualitative studies continues, and more
          specifically whether different types of qualitative research, based on different theoretical
          assumptions and methods should be combined. Sometimes authors’ claims about
          the theoretical underpinnings of their work are not always closely related to the
          methods actually used. A recent investigation suggested it is very difficult to draw
          firm boundaries around what is, and is not, a particular type of qualitative research
          as many authors failed to give any definition.52 Despite these problems this same
          investigation also found that it is possible to synthesise across different traditions52 and
          indeed some review teams consider the combining of data from multiple theoretical and
          methodological traditions a strength of the review.24



              Box 6.2: Methods proposed for the synthesis of qualitative evidence

              Synthesis method           Description

              Meta-ethnography51         A set of techniques for synthesising qualitative studies. It
                                         involves the selection, comparison and analysis of studies
                                         to create new interpretations or concepts. Key stages include
                                         the reading and re-reading of studies; determining how the
                                         studies are related by listing key concepts and comparing
                                         and contrasting them; translating the studies into one
                                         another and synthesising the translations to identify concepts
                                         which go beyond individual accounts and can be used to
                                         produce a new interpretation.
                                         It has been used to address questions about the meanings of
                                         medicines,54 55 the barriers and facilitators of adherence to TB
                                         treatment,56 19 lay experiences of diabetes and diabetes
                                         care,36 children’s perspectives of growing up in disadvantage57
                                         and teenage mothers’ experiences of their lives.58
              Thematic analysis/         The identification of important or recurrent themes. Findings
              synthesis43                are summarised under thematic headings. Information
                                         is tabulated allowing identification of prominent themes and
                                         offering structured ways of dealing with the data in each
                                         theme. More recently the method has been refined, such that
                                         a new method – thematic synthesis – has emerged.43, 59
                                         It has been used to address questions about barriers to
                                         and facilitators of healthy eating amongst children;60 young
                                         people, pregnancy and social exclusion44 and accidental
                                         injury, risk taking behaviour and the social circumstances in
                                         which young people live.61

                                                                                            (Continued)




          228



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 228                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:44
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect




                  Synthesis method            Description

                  Grounded theory (constant   Grounded theory was originally developed for use with
                  comparative method)62       primary studies and describes methods for sampling, data
                                              collection and analysis. Its potential application to the
                                              synthesis of multiple qualitative studies has recently been
                                              reported.2, 63
                                              One particular element – the constant comparative method
                                              – has received most attention as it offers a set of procedures
                                              for analysing qualitative evidence.64
                                              It has been used to address questions about women’s
                                              experiences of domestic violence,65 living with HIV infection66
                                              and caring in nursing.24
                  Qualitative research        A set of techniques for the interpretive integration of
                  synthesis: Qualitative      qualitative research findings.
                  meta-synthesis3
                  Content analysis67          A systematic technique for categorising data into themes and
                                              counting frequency of themes.

                  Case survey68               Formal process for coding data from qualitative cases into a
                                              quantitative form.
                  Qualitative comparative     A method for summarising and comparing data from case
                  analysis69                  studies using Boolean logic.
                  Qualitative research        A set of techniques for the quantitative aggregation of
                  synthesis: Qualitative      qualitative research findings.
                  meta-summary3
                  Narrative synthesis70       A general framework and specific tools and techniques that
                                              help to increase transparency and trustworthiness. Can be
                                              applied to reviews of quantitative or qualitative research as
                                              individual tools and techniques can be selected according to
                                              the type of study design and data included in the review.
                                              The framework has been applied to questions relating to the
                                              implementation of domestic smoke alarms.70




               6.5.1        Methods of synthesis

               A number of different methods have been proposed for the synthesis of qualitative
               findings, many based on approaches used in primary research.2, 3, 12
               Some of the methods maintain the qualitative form of the evidence such as meta-
               ethnography and some involve converting qualitative findings into a quantitative form
               such as content analysis. It has been argued that perhaps the least useful way of
               dealing with qualitative data is to turn them into quantitative data.53 Box 6.2 outlines
               some of the methods proposed. This is not a comprehensive list. Choice of method will


                                                                                                              229



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 229                                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:44
          Systematic Reviews


          be influenced by a number of factors including the question posed, likely number of
          relevant studies and undoubtedly the knowledge and expertise of the team undertaking
          the review.
          Many of the methods are still at a developmental stage and there are relatively few
          examples of their application. An overview of syntheses of qualitative research published
          between 1988 and 2004 identified 42 such syntheses of which meta-ethnography was
          the method most commonly used.46 Consequently there is as yet little evaluation of the
          relative strengths and weaknesses of available methods and few guidelines exist for
          judging quality. However, the recent development of a comprehensive framework for
          good practice offers potential, both for researchers wanting to carry out a synthesis and
          for those wishing to use the findings of a synthesis.52
          It is important to note that there are many different terms used to describe the
          various methods, some of which have been applied inconsistently. Some terms such as
          ‘qualitative meta-analysis’, ‘meta-study’ and ‘meta-synthesis’ appear to have been used
          in an over-arching way to describe any synthesis of qualitative research. The use of the
          term meta-synthesis to describe any synthesis of qualitative research has been criticised
          on the grounds that it is not specific to qualitative research, and is frequently technically
          incorrect, since what is being attempted is not at the meta-level of the synthesis but at
          the meta-level of the included studies (Mary Dixon-Woods, personal communication).


          6.6          USING QUALITATIVE FINDINGS TO HELP EXPLAIN,
                       INTERPRET AND IMPLEMENT FINDINGS FROM
                       EFFECTIVENESS REVIEWS

          The approach for integrating the findings from qualitative studies with the effectiveness
          review will depend on which of the options outlined in Section 6.2.1 Options for utilising
          qualitative research is selected.


          6.6.1        Findings from one or more qualitative studies

          Using the findings from one or more qualitative studies in the narrative discussion of the
          results of the quantitative studies is possibly the most straightforward approach, as it
          does not involve a separate synthesis of the qualitative studies. This method was used
          in a review of population tobacco control interventions.71 Relevant qualitative studies
          were searched for, identified and quality assessed as part of the overall review process
          and used to help interpret the quantitative findings. The qualitative findings were
          helpful in understanding the experience of staff subjected to smoking restrictions in the
          workplace. Staff viewed restrictions as divisive, as they impacted differentially across
          staff grades.


          6.6.2        Findings from a synthesis of qualitative studies

          Findings from a synthesis of qualitative studies can be used to interpret the findings of
          the quantitative synthesis. The best available examples are two reviews of qualitative
          studies, which address questions of adherence with tuberculosis treatment.32, 56 Both are


          230



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 230                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:45
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               linked to a Cochrane review of directly observed therapy (DOT) for treating tuberculosis
               which found no evidence that direct observation of people taking their medication was
               better than self administered treatment.72 The reviews of qualitative studies aimed
               to help explain these findings as well as helping to understand the factors influencing
               (negatively or positively) adherence with tuberculosis treatment. Both reviews identified
               a number of factors that provide fresh insights into the reasons for poor adherence. In
               turn these factors can be used to inform the development of new interventions as well
               as inform the implementation of specific measures to improve adherence. With regard
               to interpreting the quantitative findings, the qualitative synthesis offered huge insight.
               For example, in helping to understand that patient experience was frequently negative
               and dehumanizing in hospital or clinic based DOT where participants had less choice
               or flexibility over treatment, often having to travel during work hours and not being
               in control of their drug supply. The authors suggest that costs to the patient in terms
               of time and resources and the dehumanizing nature of the intervention may help to
               explain why clinic based DOT tended to be less successful than the alternatives.32


               6.6.3        Combining qualitative and quantitative syntheses

               The synthesis of qualitative studies can be brought together in a formal way with the
               synthesis of quantitative studies. Because the model mixes methods at the review level,
               it preserves the integrity of the findings from each study type. This approach developed
               by the EPPI-Centre has been used in a series of reviews focusing on young people and
               healthy eating73 as well as reviews in other topic areas such as HIV health promotion45
               and young people, pregnancy and social exclusion.44
               The review focusing on promotion of healthy eating is used to illustrate the approach.73
               The findings from each synthesis were juxtaposed. This was done by using a matrix that
               enabled the qualitative findings relating to young peoples’ views about healthy eating
               (and implied recommendations) to be compared and contrasted against the actual
               interventions evaluated in the quantitative studies. The comparative analysis was guided
               by three questions, relating to which interventions matched the recommendations
               derived from young peoples’ views; which recommendations had yet to be evaluated
               using rigorous methods and whether interventions that matched recommendations
               demonstrated larger effects. One theme emerged relating to the promotion of fruit and
               vegetables as tasty rather than healthy, with minimal emphasis on health messages.
               Five evaluation studies matched this theme and subgroup analysis suggested that the
               biggest increase in vegetable consumption was in the studies with minimal focus on
               health messages. A research gap was identified relating to the theme that fruit and
               vegetables should not be promoted in the same way.
               In bringing together the results from the two sets of studies the review team were
               able to demonstrate added value both in helping to understand why certain types of
               intervention might be more effective than others, and in guiding recommendations
               for future research. This approach has the potential to involve any number of linked
               syntheses, addressing different questions that are important to the effectiveness of an
               intervention.




                                                                                                     231



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 231                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:45
          Systematic Reviews


          6.7          FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS

          Despite recognition of the importance of qualitative research to effectiveness reviews,
          the methods available are not fully developed or well established. Teams undertaking
          reviews of qualitative studies can usefully add to knowledge by publishing their own
          experiences of the process.



              Summary: Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside
              systematic reviews of effect

              •     Qualitative research can enhance the utility of reviews of effectiveness in
                    a variety of ways such as shaping questions of importance to end users,
                    understanding the mechanisms behind effectiveness or ineffectiveness,
                    understanding heterogeneous results, identifying factors that impact on
                    the implementation of an intervention, describing the experience of people
                    receiving the interventions, and providing participants’ subjective evaluations
                    of outcomes.
              •     Qualitative research is not a single method but includes a range of designs
                    such as interviews, direct observation, analysis of texts/documents or
                    of audio/video recorded speech or behaviour. Choice of method is often
                    determined by a particular theoretical perspective, such as phenomenology.
              •     Whichever approach guides the search for qualitative research, it is important
                    to be transparent and to document clearly the steps taken and discuss the
                    potential impact of any limitations.
              •     Despite lack of consensus over the value of quality assessment, structured
                    approaches for judging validity and reliability in qualitative research have been
                    developed, used in practice and compared empirically.
              •     A number of methods have been proposed for the synthesis of qualitative
                    studies, but little evaluation undertaken.
              •     There are three main approaches to integrating the findings from qualitative
                    studies within an effectiveness review. Use the findings from one or more
                    qualitative studies in the narrative discussion of the quantitative findings; use
                    the findings from the synthesis of qualitative studies to interpret the findings
                    of the quantitative synthesis or bring together in a formal way the synthesis of
                    qualitative studies with the synthesis of quantitative studies.




          232



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 232                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:45
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               REFERENCES

               1. Sheldon TA. Making evidence synthesis more useful for management and policy-
               making. J Health Serv Res Policy 2005;10 Suppl 1:1-5.
               2. Pope C, Mays N, Popay J. Synthesizing qualitative and quantitative health evidence: a
               guide to methods. Maidenhead: Open University Press; 2007.
               3. Sandelowski M, Barroso J. Handbook for synthesizing qualitative research. New York,
               NY: Springer; 2006.
               4. Giacomini MK, Cook DJ, for the Evidence-Based Medicine Working Group. Users’ guide
               to the medical literature. XXIII. Qualitative research in health care. A. Are the results of
               the study valid? JAMA 2000;284:357-62.
               5. Pope C, Mays N, editors. Qualitative research in health care. 3rd ed. Oxford:
               Blackwell 2006.
               6. Murtagh MJ, Thomson RG, May CR, Rapley T, Heaven BR, Graham RH, et al.
               Qualitative methods in a randomised controlled trial: the role of an integrated
               qualitative process evaluation in providing evidence to discontinue the intervention in
               one arm of a trial of a decision support tool. Qual Saf Health Care 2007;16:224-9.
               7. Roen K, Arai L, Roberts H, Popay J. Extending systematic reviews to include evidence
               on implementation: methodological work on a review of community-based initiatives to
               prevent injuries. Soc Sci Med 2006;63:1060-71.
               8. Roberts KA, Dixon-Woods M, Fitzpatrick R, Abrams KR, Jones DR. Factors affecting
               uptake of childhood immunisation: a Bayesian synthesis of qualitative and quantitative
               evidence. Lancet 2002;360 1596-9.
               9. Dixon-Woods M, Cavers D, Agarwal S, Annandale E, Arthur A, Harvey J, et al.
               Conducting a critical interpretive synthesis of the literature on access to healthcare by
               vulnerable groups. BMC Med Res Methodol 2006;6:35.
               10. Pawson R, Greenhalgh T, Harvey G, Walshe K. Realist synthesis: an introduction.
               Manchester: ESRC Research Methods Programme; 2004.
               11. Pawson R, Greenhalgh T, Harvey G, Walshe K. Realist review: a new method of
               systematic review designed for complex policy interventions. J Health Serv Res Policy
               2005;10 Suppl 1:21-34.
               12. Dixon-Woods M, Agarwal S, Young B, Jones D, Sutton A. Integrative approaches to
               qualitative and quantitative evidence. London: NHS Health Development Agency; 2004.
               13. Oliver S, Harden A, Rees R, Shepherd J, Brunton G, Garcia J, et al. An emerging
               framework for including different types of evidence in systematic reviews for public
               policy. Evaluation 2005;11:428-46.
               14. Higgins JPT, Green S, (editors). Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of
               Interventions. Version 5.0.0 [updated February 2008]: The Cochrane Collaboration;
               2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org




                                                                                                      233



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 233                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:45
          Systematic Reviews


          15. EPPI-Centre [Internet]. London: The Evidence for Policy and Practice Information,
          Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London; c2008. [cited
          2008 Apr 17]. Available from: http://eppi.ioe.ac.uk/cms/
          16. Dixon-Woods M, Fitzpatrick R. Qualitative research in systematic reviews. Has
          established a place for itself. BMJ 2001;323:765-6.
          17. Evans D. Database searches for qualitative research. J Med Libr Assoc
          2002;90:290–3.
          18. Dixon-Woods M, Bonas S, Booth A, Jones DR, Miller T, Sutton AJ, et al. How can
          systematic reviews incorporate qualitative research? A critical perspective. Qualitative
          Research 2006;6:27-44.
          19. Atkins S, Lewin S, Smith H, Engel M, Fretheim A, Volmink J. Conducting a meta-
          ethnography of qualitative literature: lessons learnt. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008;8:21
          20. Flemming K, Briggs M. Electronic searching to locate qualitative research: evaluation
          of three strategies. J Adv Nurs 2007;57:95–100.
          21. Grant MJ. How does your searching grow? A survey of search preferences and the
          use of optimal search strategies in the identification of qualitative research. Health Info
          Libr J 2004;21:21-32.
          22. Shaw RL, Booth A, Sutton AJ, Miller T, Smith JA, Young B, et al. Finding qualitative
          research: an evaluation of search strategies. BMC Med Res Methodol 2004;4:5.
          23. Booth A. Cochrane or cock-eyed? How should we conduct systematic reviews of
          qualitative research? [monograph online]. In: Qualitative Evidence-Based Practice
          Conference; 2001 May 14-16; Coventry University.
          24. Finfgeld-Connett D. Meta-synthesis of caring in nursing. J Clin Nurs 2008;17:196-
          204.
          25. Booth A. “Brimful of STARLITE”: toward standards for reporting literature searches.
          J Med Libr Assoc 2006;94:421-9.
          26. Oakley A. Experiments in knowing: gender and method in social sciences.
          Cambridge: Policy Press; 2000.
          27. Sandelowski M, Docherty S, Emden C. Focus on qualitative methods. Qualitative
          metasynthesis: issues and techniques. Res Nurs Health 1997;20:365-71.
          28. Buchanan DR. An uneasy alliance: combining qualitative and quantitative research
          methods. Health Educ Q 1992;19:117-35.
          29. Howe K, Eisenhart M. Standards for qualitative (and quantitative) research: a
          prolegomenon. Educational Researcher 1990;19:2-9.
          30. Seale S, Silverman D. Ensuring rigour in qualitative research. Eur J Pub Health
          1997;7:389-4.
          31. Murphy E, Dingwall R, Greatbatch D, Parker S, Watson P. Qualitative research
          methods in health technology assessment: a review of the literature. Health Technol
          Assess 1998;2:1-274.



          234



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 234                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:45
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               32. Noyes J, Popay J. Directly observed therapy and tuberculosis: how can a systematic
               review of qualitative research contribute to improving services? A qualitative meta-
               synthesis. J Adv Nurs 2007;57:227-43.
               33. Dixon-Woods M, Shaw RL, Agarwal S, Smith JA. The problem of appraising
               qualitative research. Qual Saf Health Care 2004;13:223-5.
               34. Spencer L, Ritchie J, Lewis J, Dillon L. Quality in qualitative evaluation: a framework
               for assessing research evidence [monograph online]. London: Cabinet Office; 2003.
               Available from: www.gsr.gov.uk/evaluating_policy/era_papers/qual_eval.asp
               35. Boulton M, Fitzpatrick R, Swinburn C. Qualitative research in health care: II. A
               structured review and evaluation of studies. J Eval Clin Pract 1996;2:171-9.
               36. Campbell R, Pound P, Pope C, Britten N, Pill R, Morgan M, et al. Evaluating meta-
               ethnography: a synthesis of qualitative research on lay experiences of diabetes and
               diabetes care. Soc Sci Med 2003;56:671-84.
               37. Hoddinott P, Pill R. A review of recently published qualitative research in general
               practice. More methodological questions than answers? Fam Pract 1997;14:313-9.
               38. Long AF, Godfrey M. An evaluation tool to assess the quality of qualitative research
               studies. Int J Soc Res Meth 2004;7:181-96.
               39. Popay J, Rogers A, Williams G. Rationale and standards for the systematic review of
               qualitative literature in health services research. Qual Health Res 1998;8:341-51.
               40. Kuper A, Reeves S, Levinson W. An introduction to reading and appraising
               qualitative research. BMJ 2008;337:a288.
               41. Dixon-Woods M, Sutton A, Shaw R, Miller T, Smith J, Young B, et al. Appraising
               qualitative research for inclusion in systematic reviews: a quantitative and qualitative
               comparison of three methods. J Health Serv Res Policy 2007;12:42-7.
               42. Critical Appraisal Skills Programme (CASP). Qualitative research: appraisal tool.
               10 questions to help you make sense of qualitative research. In. Oxford: Public Health
               Resource Unit; 2006. p. 1-4. Available from: www.phru.nhs.uk/Doc_Links/Qualitative
               Appraisal Tool.pdf
               43. Thomas J, Harden A. Methods for the thematic synthesis of qualitative research in
               systematic reviews. BMC Med Res Methodol 2008;8:45.
               44. Harden A, Brunton G, Fletcher A, Oakley A. Young people, pregnancy and social
               exclusion: a systematic synthesis of research evidence to identify effective, appropriate
               and promising approaches for prevention and support. London: EPPI-Centre, Social
               Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London; 2006.
               45. Rees R, Kavanagh J, Burchett H, Shepherd J, Brunton G, Harden A, et al. HIV
               health promotion and men who have sex with men (MSM): a systematic review of
               research relevant to the development and implementation of effective and appropriate
               interventions. London EPPI-Centre, Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education,
               University of London; 2004.




                                                                                                         235



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 235                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:46
          Systematic Reviews


          46. Dixon-Woods M, Booth A, Sutton AJ. Synthesizing qualitative research: a review of
          published reports. Qual Res 2007;7:375-422.
          47. Nicholas DB, Globerman J, Antle BJ, McNeill T, Lach LM. Processes of metastudy: a
          study of psychosocial adaptation to childhood chronic health conditions. International
          Journal of Qualitative Methods 2006;5:Article 5. Available from: www.ualberta.ca/
          ~iiqm/backissues/5_1/pdf/nicholas.pdf
          48. Walsh D, Downe S. Appraising the quality of qualitative research. Midwifery
          2006;22:108-19.
          49. Miller T, Bonas S, Dixon Woods M. Qualitative research on breastfeeding in the UK: a
          narrative review and methodological reflection. Evidence & Policy 2007;3:197-230.
          50. Harden A. Critical appraisal and qualitative research: exploring sensitivity analysis
          [abstract]. In: ESRC Research Methods Festival; 2008 Jun 30-Jul 3; St Catherine’s
          College, Oxford.
          51. Noblit GW, Hare RD. Meta-ethnography: synthesizing qualitative studies. London:
          Sage; 1988.
          52. Garside R. A comparison of methods for the systematic review of qualitative
          research: two examples using meta-ethnography and meta-study [PhD]. Exeter:
          Peninsula Postgraduate Health Institute, Universities of Exeter and Plymouth; 2008.
          53. Petticrew M, Roberts H. Systematic reviews in the social sciences: a practical guide.
          Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing; 2006.
          54. Britten N, Campbell R, Pope C, Donovan J, Morgan M, Pill R. Using meta
          ethnography to synthesise qualitative research: a worked example. J Health Serv Res
          Policy 2002;7:209-15.
          55. Pound P, Britten N, Morgan M, Yardley L, Pope C, Daker-White G, et al. Resisting
          medicines: a synthesis of qualitative studies of medicine taking. Soc Sci Med
          2005;61:133-55.
          56. Munro SA, Lewin SA, Smith HJ, Engel ME, Fretheim A, Volmink J. Patient adherence
          to tuberculosis treatment: a systematic review of qualitative research. PLoS Med
          2007;4:e238.
          57. Attree P. Growing up in disadvantage: a systematic review of the qualitative
          evidence. Child Care Health Dev 2004;30:679-89.
          58. Graham H, McDermott E. Qualitative research and the evidence base of policy:
          insights from studies of teenage mothers in the UK. J Soc Policy 2005;35:21-37.
          59. Thomas J, Harden A. Methods for the thematic synthesis of qualitative research in
          systematic reviews. London: ESRC National Centre for Research Methods; 2007. Report
          No.: NCRM Working Paper Series Number (10/07).
          60. Thomas J, Sutcliffe K, Harden A, Oakley A, Oliver S, Rees R, et al. Children and
          healthy eating: a systematic review of barriers and facilitators. London: EPPI-Centre,
          Social Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London; 2003.




          236



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 236                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:46
                        Incorporating qualitative evidence in or alongside systematic reviews of effect


               61. Thomas J, Kavanagh J, Tucker H, Burchett H, Tripney J, Oakley A. Accidental
               injury, risk-taking behaviour and the social circumstances in which young people live:
               a systematic review. London: EPPI-Centre, Social Science Research Unit, Institute of
               Education, University of London; 2007.
               62. Glaser BG, Strauss AL. The discovery of grounded theory. Chicago, IL: Aldine; 1967.
               63. Dixon-Woods M, Agarwal S, Jones D, Young B, Sutton A. Synthesising qualitative
               and quantitative evidence: a review of possible methods. J Health Serv Res Policy
               2005;10:45-53.
               64. Strauss A, Corbin J. Basics of qualitative research: techniques and procedures for
               developing grounded theory. 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage; 1998.
               65. Kearney MH. Enduring love: a grounded formal theory of women’s experience of
               domestic violence. Res Nurs Health 2001;24:270-82.
               66. Barroso J, Powell-Cope GM. Metasynthesis of qualitative research on living with HIV
               infection. Qual Health Res 2000;10:340-53.
               67. Hodson R. Analyzing documentary accounts. London: Sage; 1999.
               68. Yin RK. Case study research: design and methods. 2nd ed. Thousand Oaks, CA:
               Sage; 1994.
               69. Ragin CC. The comparative method: moving beyond qualitative and quantitative
               strategies. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press; 1987.
               70. Popay J, Roberts H, Sowden A, Petticrew M, Arai L, Rodgers M, et al. Guidance on
               the conduct of narrative synthesis in systematic reviews. Lancaster: ESRC Research
               Methods Programme; 2006.
               71. Thomas S, Fayter D, Misso K, Ogilvie D, Petticrew M, Sowden A, et al. Population
               tobacco control interventions and their effects on social inequalities in smoking:
               systematic review. Tob Control 2008;17:230-7.
               72. Volmink J, Garner P. Directly observed therapy for treating tuberculosis
               Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2007, Issue 4. Art. No.: CD003343. DOI:
               10.1002/14651858.CD003343.pub3.
               73. Thomas J, Harden A, Oakley A, Oliver S, Sutcliffe K, Rees R, et al. Integrating
               qualitative research with trials in systematic reviews. BMJ 2004;328:1010-2.




                                                                                                     237



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 237                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:46
          238



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 238   8/1/09 09:29:46
               APPENDIX 1: OTHER REVIEW APPROACHES



               This guide describes the process of conducting a systematic review of the effectiveness
               of a health intervention using aggregate data presented in reports and publications.
               Issues specific to undertaking reviews of clinical tests, adverse events, public health
               interventions, economic evaluations and the identification, assessment and synthesis
               of qualitative studies to help explain, interpret and implement the findings from
               effectiveness reviews are also covered. However, different types of evidence synthesis
               have emerged in order to meet objectives not met by standard systematic review
               methods. These approaches are beyond the scope of this guide but are described briefly
               here.


               INDIVIDUAL PATIENT DATA (IPD) META-ANALYSIS

               Individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis is a specific method of systematic review.
               Instead of extracting data from study publications, the original research data for each
               participant is obtained directly from the researchers responsible for each included
               study. These data can then be collated and re-analysed centrally and, if appropriate,
               combined in meta-analyses. The approach has been used extensively in cancer1 and
               cardiovascular disease and is becoming used more frequently in many other areas of
               health.2
               Although IPD meta-analysis usually takes longer and costs more than conventional
               systematic reviews of published aggregate data, they offer a number of benefits, related
               particularly to the quality of data and the type of analyses that can be done.3, 4 The IPD
               provided can be checked in detail and analyses carried out in a consistent way across
               studies. The reviewer does not have to interpret information or analyses presented
               in published reports, or have to consider combining differing outcome measures or
               summary statistics. If outcomes or patient characteristics have been measured, scored
               or defined differently, it is often possible to use the data supplied to redefine these
               according to an agreed review definition.5 Problems with the original analyses can also
               often be avoided, for example if data are obtained from all randomised patients then
               intention to treat (ITT) analyses (see Chapter 1 Section 1.3.5 Data synthesis) may
               be possible even if the original study analyses failed to use ITT methods.6 The IPD
               approach to systematic review can also be helpful in circumventing publication and
               associated biases.7 IPD reviews should therefore be considered in circumstances where
               the published information does not permit a good quality review, or where particular
               types of analyses are required that are not feasible using standard approaches.
               Although obtaining IPD can help avoid problems associated with the analyses and
               reporting of studies, as with other types of systematic review, it cannot, generally, help
               avoid bias associated with study design or conduct.
               IPD reviews are usually carried out as collaborative projects whereby all researchers
               contributing information from their studies, together with those managing or providing
               expert advice to the project, become part of an active collaboration. Detailed discussion


                                                                                                     239



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 239                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:47
          Systematic Reviews


          of how such projects are operationalised is outside the scope of this report. However,
          the rationale for IPD meta-analysis is the same as for any other systematic review, and
          many of the approaches and methods used are the same, with substantial differences
          occurring only with respect to data collection, checking and analysis. Some aspects
          of analysis, relating particularly to time-to-event analysis and sub-group analysis are
          discussed briefly in the synthesis section of Chapter 1. Their relevance to systematic
          reviews of clinical tests is briefly discussed in Chapter 2. Further details on organisation
          of IPD meta-analysis and data collection and checking can be found elsewhere.3, 8


          PROSPECTIVE META-ANALYSIS

          Prospective meta-analysis involves selecting a group of studies for inclusion in a meta-
          analysis before the results of those studies are known. Because decisions about relevant
          outcomes and subgroups are made in advance, there is no opportunity for selecting
          studies on the basis of their findings, thereby preventing publication and selection
          biases. It may also mean that investigators can agree on consistent study methods and
          data structures that will facilitate the subsequent meta-analysis. Analyses are generally
          done using IPD. However, as with IPD meta-analysis, prospective meta-analyses may
          require the close collaboration of several independent research groups, which can
          present various logistical challenges.


          REVIEWS OF REVIEWS

          This describes a systematic review that includes only other systematic reviews. In
          theory the systematic reviews included in the review should have covered most of
          the primary studies available. Reviews of reviews are likely to be helpful when a
          review question is very broad and a number of systematic reviews have already been
          conducted in the topic area. However, the different inclusion criteria adopted by the
          various reviews can make synthesis and interpretation problematic.


          SCOPING REVIEWS

          A scoping review determines the size and nature of the evidence base for a particular
          topic area, which can in turn be used to identify gaps in the literature and make
          recommendations for future primary research. The literature search should be as
          extensive as possible, including a range of relevant databases, handsearching and
          attempts to identify unpublished literature. Scoping reviews differ from standard
          systematic reviews in that they do not attempt to synthesise the evidence. A scoping
          review might be useful to research bodies that are planning a primary study, or to
          assess the feasibility of a full systematic review. It is not appropriate to use a scoping
          review to answer a clinical question.




          240



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 240                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:47
                                                                Appendix 1: Other review approaches


               RAPID EVIDENCE ASSESSMENTS

               Rapid evidence assessments are used to summarise the available research evidence
               within the constraints of a given timetable, typically three months or less. Rapid
               evidence assessments differ from full systematic reviews in terms of the time
               constraints and consequently there are limitations on the extent of the literature
               searches and other review activities. Whilst attempting to be as comprehensive as
               possible, rapid evidence assessments usually make compromises to meet their tight
               deadlines; therefore they may fail to identify potentially relevant studies. They are
               useful to policy-makers who need to make decisions quickly, but should be viewed as
               provisional appraisals, rather than full systematic reviews.


               REFERENCES

               1. Clarke M, Godwin J. Systematic reviews using individual patient data: a map for the
               minefields? Ann Oncol 1998;9:827-33.
               2. Simmonds MC, Higgins JP, Stewart LA, Tierney JF, Clarke MJ, Thompson SG. Meta-
               analysis of individual patient data from randomized trials: a review of methods used in
               practice. Clin Trials 2005;2:209-17.
               3. Stewart LA, Clarke MJ. Practical methodology of meta-analyses (overviews) using
               updated individual patient data. Cochrane Working Group. Stat Med 1995;14:2057-79.
               4. Stewart LA, Tierney JF. To IPD or not to IPD? Advantages and disadvantages of
               systematic reviews using individual patient data. Eval Health Prof 2002;25:76-97.
               5. Askie L, Duley L, Henderson-Smart D, Stewart L. Antiplatelet agents for prevention of
               pre-eclampsia: a meta-analysis of individual patient data. Lancet 2007;369:1791-8.
               6. Advanced Bladder Cancer (ABC) Meta-analysis Collaboration. Adjuvant chemotherapy
               in invasive bladder cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of individual
               patient data Advanced Bladder Cancer (ABC) Meta-analysis Collaboration. Eur Urol
               2005;48:189-99.
               7. Stewart L, Tierney J, Burdett S. Do systematic reviews based on individual patient
               data offer a means of circumventing biases associated with trial publications? In:
               Rothstein HR, Sutton AJ, Borenstein M, editors. Publication bias in meta-analysis:
               prevention, assessment and adjustments. Chichester: Wiley; 2005. p. 261-86.
               8. Stewart LA, Tierney JF, Clarke M. Chapter 19: Reviews of individual patient data.
               In: Higgins JPT, Green S, editors. Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of
               Interventions. Version 5.0.0 (updated February 2008): The Cochrane Collaboration;
               2008. Available from: www.cochrane-handbook.org




                                                                                                      241



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 241                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:47
          242



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 242   8/1/09 09:29:47
               APPENDIX 2: EXAMPLE SEARCH STRATEGY TO
               IDENTIFY STUDIES FROM ELECTRONIC DATABASES



               The development of a search strategy is an iterative process: one attempt will rarely
               produce the final strategy. Strategies are usually built up from a series of test searches
               and discussions of the results of those searches among the review team.
               The first step is to break down the review question to help guide the development of
               search terms, using a structure such as PICOS.
               For example:

                  Population(s)/Patient(s)                   Patients undergoing hip replacement
                  Intervention(s)/Treatment(s)               Antimicrobial prophylaxis
                  Comparator(s)                              No prophylaxis
                  Outcome(s)                                 Postoperative infection
                  Study Design                               Any type of study design
               It is not necessary to include all of the PICOS concepts in the search strategy. It is
               preferable to search for those concepts that can be clearly defined and translated into
               search terms. Concepts that are poorly defined, not likely to be included in journal
               abstracts, or not indexed in a consistent way will be difficult to identify from database
               searches. If this is the case, using a broader search and then sifting through the
               identified studies may be preferable. This may apply particularly to the outcome(s)
               of studies as these are frequently not referred to in either the title or abstract of a
               database record.
               Search filters are tested and in some cases validated strategies that can be used in a
               named database to identify specific types of study. They usually consist of a series of
               database index terms relating to study type combined with free text terms describing
               the methods used in conducting that type of research. There are filters available that
               will, for example, reliably identify RCTs in MEDLINE and in EMBASE, but filters for use
               in other databases or to identify other study types are limited. The development and
               validation of filters to identify other study types, such as diagnostic accuracy studies and
               qualitative research, is ongoing.1-4 A useful source of information about search filters is
               the website maintained by the InterTASC Information Specialists’ Subgroup
               www.york.ac.uk/inst/crd/intertasc/ which lists both published search filters and research
               on their development and use.
               Once the concepts of the search have been determined, the next stage is to produce
               a list of synonyms, abbreviations and spelling variants which may be used by authors.
               Similar research is often described using very different terms. To reflect this variation,
               a search strategy will usually comprise both indexing terms (if the database has
               a thesaurus or controlled vocabulary) and ‘free text’ terms and synonyms (from
               the database record’s title and abstract) to ensure that as many relevant papers



                                                                                                       243



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 243                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:47
          Systematic Reviews


          are retrieved as possible. For example, when searching MEDLINE for studies about
          myocardial infarction, the free text term “heart attack” should be used as well as the
          Medical Subject Heading (MeSH) term “Myocardial Infarction”. Identifying appropriate
          indexing terms can be done by searching for key papers and checking how they have
          been indexed, consulting clinical experts in the review team and advisory group, as well
          as by scanning the thesaurus for relevant terms.
          When selecting free text terms to use in the strategy it is important to take account
          of alternative spellings (including US and British English variants), abbreviations,
          synonyms, geographical variation, and changes in terminology over time. Sometimes it
          can also be useful to search for common mis-spellings, for example “asprin” when you
          want to retrieve studies of aspirin.
          It is important to compile imaginatively and to check the indexing terms used in known
          relevant publications. Once a list of potential search terms has been compiled for each
          of the concepts, the next stage is to identify relevant subject headings which have
          been used to describe the topic in the databases you plan to search. For example with
          postoperative infection the following Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) are available for
          use in MEDLINE:

              •     Bacterial Infections
              •     Postoperative Complications
              •     Surgical Wound Infection
              •     Prosthesis-Related Infections
              •     Sepsis
              •     Infection Control.
          Some of these terms are “high level” that encompass narrower or more specific
          terms. To capture these narrower terms, in those databases that offer the facility, it
          is possible to ‘explode’ the high level term and so search for many terms at once. The
          explosion facility within a database makes use of the hierarchical thesaurus. Using the
          command “exp Bacterial Infections/” in the OvidSP interface to MEDLINE will retrieve
          papers indexed with that term but will also automatically retrieve papers indexed with
          the narrower terms Bacteramia, Hemorrhagic Septicaemia, Central Nervous System
          Bacterial Infections, etc. as displayed in the section of the MeSH below.
          Bacterial Infections/

              •     Bacteraemia
                    •    Hemorrhagic Septicaemia
              •     Central Nervous System Bacterial Infections
              •     Endocarditis, Bacterial
              •     Eye Infections, Bacterial
              •     Fournier Gangrene




          244



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 244                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:48
                 Appendix 2: Example search strategy to identify studies from electronic databases


               The subject headings should be added to the concept list relating to the postoperative
               infection concept so that a first test search strategy for MEDLINE includes a mixture of
               text terms and MeSH headings.

                  bacterial adj infect$.ti,ab.
                  (postoperative adj complication$ or post adj operative adj complication$).ti,ab.
                  surgical adj wound adj infection$.ti,ab.
                  prosthesis-related adj infection$.ti,ab.
                  hip adj replacement adj3 infection$.ti,ab.
                  sepsis.ti,ab.
                  Septic?emia.ti,ab.
                  infection adj control.ti,ab.
                  bacterial adj contamination.ti,ab.
                  Exp Bacterial Infections/
                  Exp Postoperative Complications/
                  Surgical Wound Infection/
                  Prosthesis-Related Infections/
                  Sepsis/
                  Exp Infection Control/
               The search has been written for the OvidSP search interface to MEDLINE and has
               commands specific to that interface:

                  adj         Words have to appear next to each other. Also retrieves hyphenated words.
                  adj3        Words have to appear within 3 words of each other. Other numbers can be
                              used as required.
                  $           Truncation symbol, for example ‘complication$’ retrieves ‘complications’ as
                              well as ‘complication’.
                  .ti,ab      Restricts the search to title and abstract fields, to avoid retrieving
                              unexpected results from the subject headings.
                  EXP         Explode the subject heading, to retrieve more specific terms
                  /           MeSH heading.
                  ?           Optional wild card character used within, or at the end of, a search term
                              to substitute for one or no characters. Useful for retrieving documents with
                              British and American word variants.
               Each database interface has its own unique set of commands and, information about
               these will be on the database help pages.
               Once a series of concepts that reflect the PICOS elements have been compiled they
               are then combined using Boolean logic (AND, OR, NOT) to create a set of results which
               should contain articles relating to the topic in question. The AND operator is used to
               ensure that all the search terms must appear in the record, for example searching for
               “prostate AND cancer” retrieves all records which contain both the term prostate and
               the term cancer. AND is used to narrow down or focus a search.


                                                                                                        245



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 245                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:48
          Systematic Reviews


          OR is used to accumulate similar search terms and thus makes searches larger.
          Searching for “heparin OR warfarin” retrieves all records where either heparin or
          warfarin or both are found. It is best to use the OR operator to combine terms relating
          to the same concept (e.g. all the postoperative infection terms in the example above)
          before narrowing down a search using the AND operator with another set of terms.
          NOT is used to exclude records from a search. For example, “acupuncture NOT asthma”
          will retrieve all records which contain the term acupuncture, but not those which also
          contain the word asthma. NOT should be used with great care because it may have a
          larger effect than anticipated; a record may well discuss both the concept of interest
          and the one to be excluded.
          The combination of concepts using the Boolean operators might develop as follows (for
          MEDLINE using the OVIDSP interface):

              1     Hip Joint/
              2     Hip Prosthesis/
              3     Acetabulum/
              4     hip replacement$.ti,ab.
              5     total-hip replacement$.ti,ab.
              6     total joint replacement$.ti,ab.
              7     hip surgery.ti,ab.
              8     hip operation$.ti,ab.
              9     (hip adj3 prosthe$).ti,ab.
              10 (hip adj3 arthroplasty).ti,ab.
              11 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10
              12 exp Bacterial Infections/
              13 exp Postoperative Complications/
              14 Surgical Wound Infection/
              14 Prosthesis-Related Infections/
              16 Sepsis/
              17 exp Anti-Infective Agents/
              18 exp Infection Control/
              19 exp Antibiotics/
              20 Antibiotic Prophylaxis/
              21 ((bacteri$ or wound$) adj2 (infect$ or contamin$)).ti,ab.
              22 sepsis.ti,ab.
              23 antibiotic$.ti,ab.
              24 antimicrobial$.ti,ab.
              25 anti-microbial$.ti,ab.
              26 (anti$ adj infect$).ti,ab.
              27 ultraclean.ti,ab.



          246



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 246                                                                     8/1/09 09:29:48
                 Appendix 2: Example search strategy to identify studies from electronic databases


                  28 hypersterile.ti,ab.
                  29 or/12-28
                  30 11 and 29
               Sets 1 to 10 capture the concepts of hip replacement or hip surgery and are combined
               using OR to produce result set 11. Sets 12 to 28 capture the concepts of infection and
               infection prevention and are combined using OR to produce result set 29. The two sets
               of concepts are then combined to find the records which contain both concepts using
               AND to produce set 30.
               The draft strategy can be tested on one database and the results checked by whether
               it retrieves papers that are already known to the team but were not used to develop
               the draft strategy. In addition, a small sample of the results of the test or scoping
               search can be examined by the review team to identify additional search terms (text
               words and indexing) or highlight potential limitations. The sample records need to be
               representative so bear in mind that the search results as output from the database
               will be listed in either alphabetical order by authors name, or by publication date or
               by date added to the database. Depending upon the complexity of the review topic,
               and consequently the search to be undertaken, this process may need to be repeated
               several times until an agreed strategy is formulated. If at all possible, the final search
               strategy should be peer reviewed to check for errors (spelling mistakes, incorrect use of
               operators, or failure to include relevant MeSH) that could reduce the recall of papers.5
               At this point, the searches using other databases and resources can begin. However,
               this does not mean that search iterations should necessarily stop. If new search terms
               are identified during the review process they should be incorporated into the strategy or
               supplementary searches should be carried out.
               Converting a final strategy for use in other databases requires care. While free text
               terms can usually be re-used in other databases you will need to identify one or possibly
               more matching relevant thesaurus terms used by the other databases. Each database
               thesaurus is unique so this procedure should be undertaken for each database being
               searched. For example, if you are searching MEDLINE for papers about “pressure sores”
               you would use the MeSH term “pressure ulcer” while if you were searching EMBASE you
               would need to use the EMTREE term “decubitus”.
               If the search interface is also different you will need to make appropriate changes to the
               search operators used in the strategy. For example, some database providers use ‘$’ as
               the truncation symbol, while other database providers use ‘*’.
               Not all databases include an abstract in the record. Where this is the case the search
               strategy can be made more sensitive given the reliance solely upon terms being
               identified in the title (and any indexing fields). This can be achieved by using more
               synonyms and broader terms.
               In some cases databases with web interfaces have a restricted range of search options
               and if this is the case searchers need to adopt pragmatic approaches and use very
               simple searches. For example, if there are limited options for combining terms using
               Boolean operators such as AND an alternative approach may be to run a number of
               separate searches on the database in place of one longer search.



                                                                                                     247



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 247                                                                         8/1/09 09:29:48
          Systematic Reviews


          REFERENCES

          1. Leeflang M, McDonald S, Scholten RJ, Rutjes A, Reitsma JJB. Search strategies
          to identify diagnostic accuracy studies in MEDLINE and EMBASE (Protocol).
          Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2007, Issue 2. Art. No.: MR000022. DOI:
          10.1002/14651858.MR000022.pub2.
          2. Flemming K, Briggs M. Electronic searching to locate qualitative research: evaluation
          of three strategies. J Adv Nurs 2007;57:95–100.
          3. Leeflang MMG, Scholten RJPM, Rutjes AWS, Reitsma JB, Bossuyt PMM. Use of
          methodological search filters to identify diagnostic accuracy studies can lead to the
          omission of relevant studies. J Clin Epidemiol 2006;59:234-40.
          4. Shaw RL, Booth A, Sutton AJ, Miller T, Smith JA, Young B, et al. Finding qualitative
          research: an evaluation of search strategies. BMC Med Res Methodol 2004;4:5.
          5. Sampson M, McGowan J. Errors in search strategies were identified by type and
          frequency. J Clin Epidemiol 2006;59:1057-63.




          248



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 248                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:49
               APPENDIX 3: DOCUMENTING THE SEARCH PROCESS



               The search should be described briefly in the methods section of the review. The
               detailed description can be made available as a web document or as an appendix in a
               report, where space allows.


               DESCRIBING ELECTRONIC DATABASE SEARCHES

               The description should include:

                  •     The name of the database searched
                  •     The name of the database provider/system used
                  •     The date when the search was run
                  •     The years covered by the search
                  •     The full strategy used. It is preferable to reproduce the strategy with the
                        minimum of editing. Removing the number of hits identified, for example, can
                        introduce errors and hide genuine mistakes.
               For example:
               MEDLINE was searched using the Ovid interface on 06/11/07 for the period 1996 to
               October Week 4 2007

                  1     (smoking or antismoking or anti-smoking).ti,ab. (53347)
                  2     Smoking/(39157)
                  3     (smoker or smokers or tobacco or nicotine or cigar$).ti,ab. (53978)
                  4     Tobacco/or Tobacco, Smokeless/(9039)
                  5     “Tobacco Use Disorder”/(3192)
                  6     Nicotine/(6990)
                  7     or/1-6 (91596)
                  8     exp Mass Media/or Cellular Phone/(13165)
                  9     Electronic Mail/or Radio/or Television/or Telephone/(6855)
                  10 Advertising/or Hotlines/or Nonverbal Communication/(6927)
                  11 Multimedia/or Communications Media/or Pamphlets/(2296)
                  12 Health Education/or Internet/or Health Promotion/(55884)
                  13 Telecommunications/(1517)
                  14 (mass adj media).ti,ab. (949)
                  15 ((advert$ or campaign$ or program$) adj3 (tv or television or cable or cinema
                     or cinemas or theatre or theatres or theater or theaters or movies or media or
                     newspaper$ or journal$ or magazine$)).ti,ab. (1466)



                                                                                                   249



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 249                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:49
          Systematic Reviews


              16 ((advert$ or campaign$ or program$) adj3 (broadcast$ or televised)).ti,ab. (67)
              17 (internet adj3 (advert$ or campaign$ or information or program$)).ti,ab. (1349)
              18 (sms or text messag$ or texting).ti,ab. (754)
              19 ((pod adj cast$) or podcast$).ti,ab. (28)
              20 (smoking adj day$).ti,ab. (22)
              21 (selfhelp or (self adj help) or (counter adj marketing) or (consumer adj
                 advocacy)).ti,ab. (1495)
              22 ((quit adj3 win) or smokeout or (smoke adj out)).ti,ab. (54)
              23 ((advert$ or campaign$ or program$ or intervention$) adj3 (nationwide or
                 statewide or countrywide or citywide or national or nation wide or state wide or
                 country wide or city wide)).ti,ab. (7031)
              24 or/8-23 (88367)
              25 7 and 24 (5364)


          DESCRIBING JOURNAL HANDSEARCHES

          Provide a list of journal full titles in alphabetical order. State the earliest month and year
          searched, together with the latest month and year searched, and any missing journal
          issues which were not searched.


          DESCRIBING SEARCHES OF CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS

          Provide details of the conference proceedings searched, for example:
          Proceedings with a title in addition to the conference name:
                    Substance use: individual behaviour, social interactions, markets, and politics.
                    24th Arne Ryde Symposium; 2004, Aug 13-14; Lund.
          Proceedings without a separate title:
                    International Meeting on the Economic, Social, and Health Issues in Tobacco
                    Control; 2001 Dec 3-4; Kobe City
          Proceedings in a language other than English:
                    Arrêt de la consommation du tabac: Conférence de consensus [Consensus
                    conference on smoking cessation]; 1998 Oct 8-9; Charcot.
          Proceedings also published as part of a journal:
                    Proceedings of the 6th Scientific Conference: Tobacco or health, eternal problem,
                    new challenges; 2005 Nov 17-18; Poznan. (Przeglad Lekarski. 2005;62(10):947-
                    1226)




          250



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 250                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:49
                                                             Appendix 3: Documenting the search process


               DESCRIBING THE METHODS USED TO SEARCH RELEVANT INTERNET
               SOURCES

               Report the website, the URL, the date searched, any specific sections searched and the
               search terms used. For example:

                        The Action for Smoking and Health website (www.ash.org.uk/) was searched
                        on 12/10/2006 using the on-site search engine with single search terms: ‘mass
                        media’, ‘radio’, ‘television’, ‘film’, ‘advertising’. The section of the website labelled
                        ‘Tobacco Industry Documents’ was scanned in detail.

               DESCRIBING OTHER SEARCHES

               Provide a brief summary of other sources searched, for example:

                        The reference lists of studies selected for inclusion were scanned for relevant
                        studies.
                        The manufacturing company United Tobacco Substitutes International was
                        contacted for further information (15/11/06).
                        Citation searches in Science Citation Index (15/11/06) were carried out for
                        papers citing the recent key paper: Smith P and Jones L. Innovative mass media
                        smoking campaigns. Journal of Tobacco Control Innovation, 2004;23:560-569.

               DESCRIBING THE SEARCH PROCESS

               The following example shows how a search can be described briefly in a final report
               when it is possible to put the full searches in an appendix.

                        The following databases were searched for relevant studies: ASSIA (via CSA
                        1990 to 06/March/06); CENTRAL (via Cochrane Library issue 2/2006, 12/
                        April/06, 12/April/06); CINAHL (via WebSPIRS 1990 to 2006 wk 4, 01/April/06);
                        DH-Data (via Datastar 1994 to 14/March/06, 14/March/06); EMBASE (via Dialog
                        1974 to 2006 week 8, 16/March/06); MEDLINE (via Ovid, 1966 to week 10 2006,
                        15/March/06); PsycINFO (via Datastar 1806 to 2006 week 2, 17/March/06). The
                        search strategies used text words and relevant indexing to capture the concept
                        of preventing the uptake of smoking in young people. The full strategies are
                        shown in the appendix. The reference lists of included papers were assessed for
                        additional relevant studies and the journal Tobacco Control was handsearched
                        for the period January 2000-June 2006. The following websites were searched:
                        National Guideline Clearinghouse (www.guideline.gov/15/Oct/06) and Action on
                        Smoking and Health (ASH) (www.ash.org.uk/16/Oct/06).
               The following example shows how a search can be described briefly for a journal article
               where high levels of detail may not be permitted in the body of the paper:

                        The following databases were searched from inception to March/April 2006
                        for relevant studies: ASSIA, CENTRAL, CINAHL, DH-Data, EMBASE, MEDLINE,
                        PsycINFO. The literature search used the following terms (with synonyms and


                                                                                                             251



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 251                                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:49
          Systematic Reviews


                    closely related words): “smoking” combined with “prevention” and “young
                    people”. The searches were not limited by study design or language of
                    publication. Further studies were identified by examining the reference lists of all
                    included articles, handsearching the journal Tobacco Control from 2000 to 2006,
                    and searching relevant websites. The full list of sources and the search strategy
                    are available from the authors.
          A detailed search description included as an appendix to a report, or as a web
          document, or available from the authors should include the detail described above, plus
          all the search strategies for each database and resource, as shown in Q.1 to Q.5 above.
          The following are examples of the use of appendices for search strategies in CRD
          Reports:

              1. Prostate biopsy methods is an example of a narrow, well-defined topic where
                 brief details of the search strategy are given in the report methods section
                 (pages 23-4), then a clear, well set out and very detailed appendix itemises
                 exactly what was done (pages 87-97).
                         CRD Report 29 – Diagnostic value of systematic prostate biopsy methods in
                         the investigation for prostate cancer: a systematic review. 2005. www.york.
                         ac.uk/inst/crd/pdf/report29.pdf

              2. Fuller information about the searches is given in the methods section of this
                 report (pages 4-5) with additional detail in the appendix (pages 25-30).
                         CRD Report 32 – Systematic review of interventions to increase participation
                         of cancer patients in randomised controlled trials. 2006. www.york.ac.uk/
                         inst/crd/pdf/report32.pdf

              3. This is an example of how an updated search looking at a broad subject area has
                 been presented. Brief details are given in the review methods section (page 1)
                 and readers are referred to the full details in the appendix (pages 41-50).
                         CRD Report 35 – The treatment and management of chronic fatigue
                         syndrome (CFS)/myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) in adults and children:
                         update of CRD Report 22. 2007. www.york.ac.uk/inst/crd/pdf/report35.pdf
          Please note that in the three examples above the search strategies have been reported
          without including the numbers of records identified by individual search statements.
          As stated earlier in this section, CRD would now recommend the strategies being
          reproduced with a minimum of editing so there is less opportunity for errors to be
          introduced.




          252



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 252                                                                            8/1/09 09:29:49
               APPENDIX 4: SEARCHING FOR ADVERSE EFFECTS



               Named adverse effects can be searched for as both indexing terms and text words.
               For example in MEDLINE OvidSP sudden death can be searched using the following
               approach;
               #1 exp Death, Sudden/
               #2 (sudden adj2 death$).ti,ab.
               #3 #1 or #2


               KEY

               exp denotes exploding the succeeding indexing term
               adj is the proximity operator in OvidSP, and adj2 denotes within 2 words
               $ is the truncation symbol in OvidSP
               ti, ab denotes searching in the title and abstract
               In some instances subheadings may be available to focus the search on the outcome as
               an adverse effect (rather than, for example, a consequence of the disease). For example
               in MEDLINE the subheading ‘chemically induced’ is available and a search for vision
               disorders as an adverse effect may be carried out as follows:
               #1 exp Vision Disorders/ci [chemically induced]
               It should be noted, however, that for truly sensitive searches suitable text words will
               need to be added (for example, vision disorder$.ti,ab), this could be in combination with
               adverse effects terms (for example, vision disorder$.ti,ab and complication$.ti,ab etc).
               In addition to terms for named adverse effects it may also be appropriate (due to poor
               reporting in papers and indexing in databases) to add generic adverse effect search terms
               as for a general search for all adverse effects associated with an intervention (see below).


               SEARCHING WITH GENERIC ADVERSE EFFECTS TERMS

               If none of the adverse effects are known at the time of searching then a sensitive
               search strategy in MEDLINE OvidSP would include a combination of MeSH floating
               subheadings and text words for generic adverse effects terms for example;
               #1 ae.fs. OR co.fs. OR de.fs.
               #2 (safe OR safety OR side effect$ OR undesirable effect$ OR treatment emergent
               OR tolerability OR toxicity OR adrs OR (adverse adj2 (effect or effects or reaction or
               reactions or event or events or outcome or outcomes))).ti,ab
               #1 OR #2

                                                                                                        253



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 253                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:50
          Systematic Reviews


          KEY

          ae denotes the subheading ‘adverse effects’
          co denotes the subheading ‘complications’
          de denotes the subheading ‘drug effects’
          .fs denotes ‘floating’ the preceding subheading (ie searching for the subheading
          attached to any indexing term).
          Many papers on adverse effects will not contain any generic adverse effects terms in
          the title, abstract or indexing. In instances where the adverse effects are unknown at
          the time of searching, it may be possible to identify potential adverse effects to use as
          search terms from tertiary sources such as the BNF and Meyler’s Side Effects of Drugs.




          254



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 254                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:50
               Abbreviations and acronyms



               AcroMine           Text mining tool dealing with term extraction and variation
               AgeInfo            Bibliographic database (specific population group)
               Ageline            Bibliographic database (specific population group)
               Agricola           Bibliographic database (agriculture)
               AHRQ               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
               AMED               Bibliographic database (complementary medicine)
               ASSIA              Bibliographic database (Applied Social Sciences Index &
                                  Abstracts)
               AUC                Area Under the Curve
               BIOSIS Previews    Bibliographic database (life sciences)
               CASP               Critical Appraisal Skills Programme
               CBA                Cost-benefit Analysis
               CCA                Cost-consequences Analysis
               CCTRs              Comprehensive Clinical Trials Reports
               CDSR               Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
               CEA                Cost-effectiveness Analysis
               CENTRAL            Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
               ChildData          Bibliographic database (specific population group)
               CI                 Confidence Interval
               CINAHL             Bibliographic database (nursing and allied health)
               CONSORT            A set of recommendations for the reporting of RCTs
               CRD                Centre for Reviews and Dissemination
               CSA                Bibliographic database (sociological & social services abstracts)
               CUA                Cost-utility Analysis
               DAPS               Drug Analysis Prints
               DARE               Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects
               DE                 Design Effect
               DFS                Disease free survival
               DH                 Department of Health




                                                                                                255



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 255                                                                   8/1/09 09:29:50
          Systematic Reviews



          Dialog                  Database provider
          DoPHER                  Database of Promoting Health Effectiveness Reviews
          DOR                     Diagnostic Odds Ratio
          DOT                     Directly Observed Therapy
          DSA                     Digital Subtraction Angiography
          DUETs                   Database of Uncertainties about the Effects of Treatments
          EE                      Effect Estimates
          EI Compendex            Bibliographic database (engineering)
          EMBASE                  Bibliographic database (biomedicine)
          EMTREE                  Thesaurus used in EMBASE database
          Enviroline              Bibliographic database (environment)
          EPAR                    European Public Assessment Report
          EPICOT                  Evidence, Population(s), Intervention(s), Comparison(s),
                                  Outcome(s), Time stamp
          EPOC                    Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Group
          EPPI                    Evidence for Policy and Practice Information
          EQUATOR                 Enhancing the QUAlity and Transparency Of health Research
          EQ-5D                   An instrument for measuring utility in economic evaluations
          ERIC                    Bibliographic database (education)
          ESRC                    Economic and Social Research Council
          FACTA                   Text mining tool that finds associated concepts using text
                                  analysis
          FDA                     Federal Drug Administration
          FN                      False Negative
          FP                      False Positive
          GEOBASE                 Bibliographic database (earth sciences and human geography)
          HCA                     Human Capital Approach
          HEED                    Health Economic Evaluations Database
          HMIC                    Health Management Information Consortium. A bibliographic
                                  database
          HR                      Hazard Ratio
          HSROC                   Hierachical SROC
          HTA                     Health Technology Assessment
          HYE                     Healthy-years-equivalent
          ICC                     Intracluster Correlation Coefficient


          256



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 256                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:50
                                                                    Abbreviations and acronyms



               ICER               Incremental Cost-effectiveness Ratios
               ICMJE              International Committee of Medical Journal Editors
               ICONDA             Bibliographic database (housing and architecture)
               IDIS               Iowa Drug Information Service
               InterTASC          Inter Technology Assessment Services Collaboration
               IPA                International Pharmaceutical Abstracts. A bibliographic database
               IPD                Individual Patient Data
               ISSG               Information Specialists’ Sub-Group of InterTASC
               ITT                Intention To Treat
               KLEIO              Text mining tool that provides advanced searching facilities
                                  across Medline
               LILACS             Bibliographic database (Latin American and Caribbean Health
                                  Sciences Literature)
               LMWH               Low-molecular-weight heparin
               MANTIS             Bibliographic database (osteopathy and chiropractic)
               MCUG               Micturating cystourethrography
               MD                 Mean Difference
               MEDLINE            Bibliographic database (medicine)
               MeSH               Medical Subject Headings used in MEDLINE database
               MMR                Measles Mumps and Rubella
               MRA                Magnetic Resonance Angiography
               MTC                Mixed Treatment Comparisons
               NGC                National Guidelines Clearinghouse
               NHS                National Health Service
               NHS EED            NHS Economic Evaluation Database
               NICE               National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
               NIHR               National Institute for Health Research
               NRSMG              Cochrane Non Randomised Studies Methods Group
               NSAIDs             Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs
               NTIS               National Technical Information Service
               NTT                Number Needed To Treat
               O–E                Observed–Expected
               OR                 Odds Ratio
               PAIS               Public Affairs Information Service. A bibliographic database




                                                                                                 257



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 257                                                                   8/1/09 09:29:50
          Systematic Reviews



          PDR                     Physician’s Desk Reference
          PHL                     Public Health Language
          PHO                     Public Health Observatories
          PICOCS                  Population, Interventions, Comparators, Outcomes, Context,
                                  Study design
          PICOS                   Population, Interventions, Comparators, Outcomes and Study
                                  Designs
          PRISMA                  Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-
                                  Analyses
          PROGRESS                Place of Residence, Race/ethnicity, Occupation, Gender, Religion,
                                  Education, Socioeconomic status and Social capital.
          PSA                     Probabilistic Sensitivity Analysis
          PsycINFO                Bibliographic database (psychology and psychiatry)
          QALYs                   Quality-Adjusted-Life-Years
          QUADAS                  Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies included in
                                  Systematic Reviews
          QUOROM                  Quality of Reporting of Meta-analyses
          RCT                     Randomised Controlled Trial
          REMARK                  REporting recommendations for tumour MARKer prognostic
                                  studies
          ROC                     Receiver Operating Characteristic
          RR                      Risk Ratios
          RRR                     Relative Risk Reduction
          RSS                     Really Simple Syndication
          SAS                     Data analysis and statistical software
          SD                      Standard Deviation
          SE                      Standard Error
          SF-6D                   An instrument for measuring utility in economic evaluations
          SIGN                    Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network
          SMD                     Standardised Mean Difference
          SportDiscus             Bibliographic database (sport, health, fitness & sports medicine)
          SROC                    Summary ROC
          STARD                   Standards For The Reporting Of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies
          STATA                   Data analysis and statistical software
          STROBE                  An initiative to improve reporting of observational studies
          TB                      Tuberculosis



          258



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 258                                                                       8/1/09 09:29:51
                                                                  Abbreviations and acronyms



               TerMine            Text mining tool dealing with term extraction and variation
               TN                 True Negative
               TP                 True Positive
               TRANSPORT          Bibliographic database (transport)
               TREND              Guidelines for the reporting of nonrandomized evaluations of
                                  behavioural and public health interventions
               SRS                Systematic review software
               TSH                Thyroid Stimulating Hormone
               UTI                Urinary Tract Infection
               VUR                Vesicoureteric Reflux
               Wolters Kluwer     Database provider
               Waternet           Bibliographic database (water supply)
               WHO                World Health Organisation
               WHO-ART            WHO Adverse Reaction Terminology
               WINBUGS            Data analysis and statistical software
               WTP                Willingness To Pay
               ZETOC              Database of journal contents pages provided by the British
                                  Library and the Mimas servic




                                                                                                259



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 259                                                                  8/1/09 09:29:51
          260



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 260   8/1/09 09:29:51
               Glossary



               Term                         Definition

               Absolute risk reduction      See Risk difference.
               Ad hoc                       A solution designed for a specific problem or task that is not
                                            generalisable to other situations (Latin).
               Adverse effect               An adverse event for which the causal relation between the
                                            drug/intervention and the event is at least a reasonable
                                            possibility.
               Adverse event                An adverse outcome that occurs during or after exposure to a
                                            drug or other intervention and which may or may not be caused
                                            by the intervention.
               Allocation bias              Bias resulting from a systematic difference (other than the
                                            intervention) between experimental and control groups in a
                                            clinical trial. Allocation bias can be avoided by randomisation.
               Allocation concealment       See Concealment of allocation.
               A priori                     Formed or conceived beforehand (Latin).
               Archive                      Collection of material made at the end of a project and
                                            preserved to assist in answering queries about the review and to
                                            facilitate any update.
               Area under the curve (AUC)   A graphical summary of overall diagnostic accuracy; the closer
                                            the curve is to the upper left hand corner of the graph, the
                                            better the diagnostic performance. The AUC ranges from 0 to 1,
                                            with 0.5 indicating a poor test where the accuracy is equivalent
                                            to chance.
               Attrition bias               Bias resulting from systematic differences between comparison
                                            groups as a result of differential withdrawals or exclusions of
                                            participants.
               Bayesian analysis            An approach to statistical analysis that can be used in single
                                            studies or meta-analysis. A prior probability distribution based
                                            on objective evidence and subjective opinion is defined at
                                            the outset. Bayes’ theorem is then used to update the prior
                                            distribution in light of the results of a study, producing a
                                            posterior distribution from which point estimates of effect and
                                            credible intervals (equivalent to confidence intervals) can be
                                            defined.
               Baseline characteristics     Participant characteristics that are collected at the beginning
                                            of a study prior to receiving the intervention. Characteristics
                                            may include demographic details such as age and gender and
                                            clinical characteristics such as stage of disease or presence of
                                            co-morbidites.




                                                                                                             261



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 261                                                                                8/1/09 09:29:51
          Systematic Reviews



          Before-and-after study     A study design where a group is studied before and after an
                                     intervention.
          Bias                       A systematic error or deviation in results or inferences from the
                                     underlying ‘truth’. See also selection bias; performance bias;
                                     attrition bias; detection bias and reporting bias.
          Bibliographic databases    Databases that provide descriptive records of items such as
                                     books and articles.
          Bibliographic software     Computer software that assists with the organisation of
                                     bibliographic references. There are many different packages
                                     (e.g. EndNote, Reference Manager), but most will allow for
                                     the import of references from bibliographic databases and the
                                     automated production of reference lists.
          Blinding                   Keeping knowledge of which comparison group a participant
                                     belongs (e.g. to intervention or control) from the study
                                     participants, investigators or outcome assessors. This reduces
                                     the risk of bias.
          Boolean operator           Boolean operators are used to combine terms when conducting
                                     electronic searches. Examples include “AND” (used to narrow a
                                     search), “OR” (used to broaden a search) and “NOT” (used to
                                     exclude terms from a search).
          Bootstrapping              A statistical approach for examining the uncertainty in cost-
                                     effectiveness analysis. It involves drawing many random sub-
                                     samples from the original data set and computing the statistic
                                     of interest from each in the same way. After sampling, each sub-
                                     sample is returned to the data set, a process known as sampling
                                     with replacement.
          Case-control study         An observational study that compares people with a specific
                                     disease or outcome of interest (cases) with a suitable control
                                     group of people without that disease or outcome, and which
                                     seeks to find associations between the outcome and prior
                                     exposure to particular risk factors.
          Case series                A study reporting observations on a series of individuals, usually
                                     all receiving the same intervention, with no control group.
          Case survey                Formal process for coding data from qualitative cases into a
                                     quantitative form for statistical analysis.
          Clinical heterogeneity     See Heterogeneity.
          Cluster randomised trial   A trial where randomisation is of clusters of people (e.g. general
                                     practices, schools) rather than individuals themselves.
          Cochrane Collaboration     An international organisation that aims to help people make
                                     well-informed decisions about health care by preparing,
                                     maintaining, updating and ensuring the accessibility of
                                     systematic reviews of the effects of healthcare interventions.
          Cohort study               An observational study in which a defined group of participants
                                     is observed over time and a comparison made between those
                                     who did and those who did not receive the intervention.



          262



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 262                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:52
                                                                                                   Glossary



               Co-intervention             An additional diagnostic or therapeutic procedure given to
                                           people receiving a particular intervention.
               Commissioning brief         Information provided by an organisation wishing to commission
                                           a systematic review to assist researchers in preparing proposals
                                           to undertake the work.
               Communication channel       Any medium used to convey a message to an audience or
                                           audiences.
               Co-morbidity                The presence of one or more diseases or conditions other than
                                           those of primary interest.
               Comparator                  In a controlled trial, the intervention (which could include
                                           placebo, usual care, another intervention or no treatment) with
                                           which the intervention of interest is compared.
               Complex intervention        An intervention involving a number of separate elements that
                                           seem essential to the proper functioning of the intervention
                                           although the active ingredient of the intervention that is
                                           effective is difficult to specify.
               Concealment of allocation   The process used to prevent foreknowledge of which comparison
                                           group an individual will be assigned to in a randomised
                                           controlled trial. Inadequate concealment of allocation may lead
                                           to selection bias.
               Conceptual mapping          In narrative synthesis, the use of visual methods to help to
                                           construct groupings of, and relationships between, ideas and/or
                                           concepts. Closely related to idea webbing.
               Conceptual triangulation    In narrative synthesis, the use of a combination of different
                                           perspectives and/or methods to study a particular concept.
               Confidence interval         A measure of uncertainty around the results of a statistical
                                           analysis that describes the range of values within which we can
                                           be reasonably sure that the true effect lies.
                                           For example a 95% confidence interval is based on the notion
                                           that if a study were repeated many times in other samples from
                                           the same population, 95% of the confidence intervals from
                                           those studies would include the true value of the effect being
                                           measured.
                                           Wider intervals indicate lower precision; narrow intervals,
                                           greater precision.
               Confounding                 A situation in which a measure of the effect is distorted because
                                           of an association between the intervention (or exposure) with
                                           other factor(s) that influence the outcome under investigation.
                                           For example, if the control group includes patients with more
                                           advanced stages of cancer than in the intervention group, then
                                           an analysis of survival will be confounded by tumour stage.
               Content analysis            A set of procedures for collecting and organizing non-structured
                                           information. This approach makes it easier to systematically
                                           and objectively analyze the data and make inferences about the
                                           population of interest.




                                                                                                           263



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 263                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:52
          Systematic Reviews



          Continuous outcomes               Outcomes related to variables with a potentially infinite number
                                            of possible values within a given range, for example weight and
                                            blood pressure.
          Contributorship                   A system of publication credit in which all those who contributed
                                            to a publication are listed with details of their contribution,
                                            including those who did not meet the standard criteria to be
                                            listed as authors.
          Control group                     The group that acts as a comparator for one or more
                                            experimental interventions in a controlled trial.
                                            The group without the disease or outcome of interest in a case
                                            control study.
          Controlled trial                  A clinical trial with a control group.
          Cost-effectiveness analysis       An economic analysis that converts effects into health terms and
                                            describes the costs for some additional health gain (e.g. cost per
                                            additional stroke prevented).
          Cost-to-charge ratios             In economic analyses, an adjustment applied to charges in
                                            order to better reflect the true costs of the technology being
                                            evaluated.
          Critical interpretive synthesis   A form of review which, while sensitive to the issues involved
                                            in conducting reviews that conventional systematic review
                                            methodology has identified, draws on a distinctive tradition of
                                            qualitative inquiry, including interpretive approaches to review,
                                            enabling the generation of theory with strong explanatory
                                            power.
          Cross-over trial                  A type of clinical trial comparing two or more interventions in
                                            which all the participants receive all the interventions but the
                                            order of receipt is determined by randomisation.
          Cross-sectional study             A study that examines the relationship between diseases (or
                                            other health related characteristics) and other variables of
                                            interest as they exist in a defined population at a particular
                                            time.
          Custom field                      In bibliographic software, a field for which the type of content
                                            is not pre-specified by the software and which can therefore be
                                            customised by the individual. Often used in systematic reviews
                                            for keeping track of decisions or articles ordered.
          Cutpoint                          The threshold or value at which continuous data are divided into
                                            dichotomous categories. If used it is important that the cutpoint
                                            is not determined by a data dependent process.
          Database provider                 The specific platform through which a database is accessed.
                                            Examples include OVID and Dialog. Many databases are
                                            available via more than one provider. See also Search interface.
          Decision modelling                A theoretical construct (often using a mathematical framework)
                                            that allows the comparison of the relationship between costs
                                            and outcomes of alternative health care interventions by
                                            incorporating evidence from a variety of sources.




          264



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 264                                                                                  8/1/09 09:29:52
                                                                                                          Glossary



               Detection bias                   Bias caused by systematic differences between comparison
                                                groups in how outcomes are ascertained, diagnosed or verified.
               Diagnostic odds ratio            An overall indicator of diagnostic performance, calculated as
                                                the odds of a positive test result among those with the target
                                                condition, divided by the odds of a positive test result among
                                                those without the condition.
               Diagnostic threshold             Point at which diagnostic test results are classified as positive or
                                                negative.
               Dichotomous data                 Data that can take one of two possible values for example dead
                                                or alive, myocardial infarction or no myocardial infarction. Also
                                                known as binary data.
               Differential verification bias   A type of bias that occurs when a diagnosis is verified using
                                                different reference standards, depending upon the result of the
                                                index test.
               Discounting                      In health economics, a reduction applied to future costs and
                                                benefits to reflect the fact that costs and benefits available today
                                                have a higher value than those occurring in the future.
               Double-blind                     In a controlled trial, this is the process by which the participants
                                                and the investigators (outcome assessors) are prevented from
                                                knowing which intervention the participants have been given.
                                                See also Blinding.
               Effectiveness                    The extent to which a specific intervention, applied under usual
                                                circumstances, does what it is intended to do.
               Efficacy                         The extent to which an intervention produces a beneficial effect
                                                under ideal conditions.
               Estimate of effect               The observed relationship between an intervention and an
                                                outcome expressed as, for example odds ratio, risk difference,
                                                risk ratio, hazard ratio, standardised mean difference, weighted
                                                mean difference, number needed to treat.
               Evidence-based practice          An approach to the practice of medicine that involves integrating
                                                individual clinical expertise with the best available external
                                                clinical evidence from systematic research.
               Experimental intervention        An intervention under evaluation.
               Experimental study               A study in which investigators determine (by randomisation or
                                                another method) to which intervention group an individual will
                                                be allocated.
               External validity                The degree to which the results of a study hold true in other
                                                settings (generalisability). See also Validity.
               Fixed-effect model               A method of calculating a pooled effect that assumes all
                                                variation of estimates of effect between studies is assumed to
                                                be due to random error (the play of chance). See also Random-
                                                effects model.




                                                                                                                265



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 265                                                                                   8/1/09 09:29:52
          Systematic Reviews



          Forest plot             A graphical representation of the individual results of each
                                  study included in a meta-analysis together with or without the
                                  pooled meta-analysis result. The plot provides an ‘at a glance’
                                  indication of the variability between studies and highlights any
                                  studies with outlying results.
                                  Each study is shown as squares centred on its estimate of
                                  effect with a horizontal line indicating the confidence interval.
                                  A vertical line is drawn through the value that indicates no
                                  difference between the interventions being compared (e.g.
                                  1.0 for an odds ratio). If shown, the overall pooled estimate is
                                  represented as a diamond at the bottom of the plot. The centre
                                  of the diamond represents the pooled point estimate, and its
                                  horizontal extremities represent the confidence interval.
          Free text terms         In literature searching, the use of everyday words and phrases,
                                  as opposed to index terms, to search bibliographic databases.
          Funnel plot             A graphical display of study precision such as the standard error
                                  plotted against effect size that can be used to investigate biases
                                  associated with small trials (including publication bias).
          Generalisability        See External validity.
          Grey literature         A general term for the kind of material that is not published
                                  in an easily accessible form or listed in standard bibliographic
                                  databases, for example conference proceedings, internal
                                  reports, theses and some books.
          Grounded theory         A set of methods for sampling, data collection and analysis.
          Handsearching           The process of searching a journal page by page to identify
                                  relevant articles.
          Hazard ratio            A measure of effect calculated by time-to-event analyses that
                                  represents how many times more or less one group is likely to
                                  experience the outcome of interest.
          Health technology       A broad term that covers any method used by health
                                  professionals to promote health, to prevent and treat disease, or
                                  to foster and improve rehabilitation and long-term care.
          Heterogeneity           In systematic reviews heterogeneity refers to variability or
                                  differences between studies. A distinction is sometimes made
                                  between:
                                     statistical heterogeneity – differences in the effect estimates
                                     methodological heterogeneity – differences in study design
                                     clinical heterogeneity – differences in participants,
                                     interventions or outcome measures
                                  See also Homogeneity.
          Hierarchy of evidence   A hierarchy of study designs based on their internal validity,
                                  or risk of bias, with well-designed systematic reviews and
                                  randomised trials at the top and observational studies and case
                                  series lower down.
          Homogeneous             The degree of similarity between the studies included in a
                                  review.


          266



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 266                                                                        8/1/09 09:29:52
                                                                                                             Glossary



               Idea webbing                        In narrative synthesis, the use of visual methods to help to
                                                   construct groupings of, and relationships between, ideas and/or
                                                   concepts. Closely related to Conceptual mapping.
               Incorporation bias                  A type of bias that occurs when the result of the index test is
                                                   used in establishing the final diagnosis (i.e. it forms part of the
                                                   reference standard).
               Incremental cost-effectiveness      The difference in the mean costs of two interventions in the
               ratio (ICER)                        population of interest divided by the difference in the mean
                                                   outcomes in the population of interest.
               Index test                          The test whose performance is being evaluated.
               Indexing term(s)                    A word or words used to describe the subject of, for example,
                                                   a journal article. They are designed to make searching easier
                                                   and more effective. Ideally these terms will be assigned from a
                                                   controlled vocabulary, for example MeSH. See also MeSH.
               Individual patient data (IPD)       A specific type of systematic review that uses the original
               meta-analysis                       individual participant data obtained from those responsible for
                                                   included studies. Data are centrally collected, checked and
                                                   re-analysed.
               Intention to treat (ITT) analysis   True intention to treat analysis captures two criteria: (i)
                                                   participants should be analysed irrespective of whether or not
                                                   they received their allocated intervention and irrespective of
                                                   what occurred subsequently, for example, participants with
                                                   protocol violations or those subsequently judged ineligible
                                                   should be included in the analysis; (ii) all participants should
                                                   be included irrespective of whether outcomes were collected.
                                                   Although the first criterion is generally accepted, there is
                                                   no clear consensus on the second as it involves including
                                                   participants in the analyses whose outcomes are unknown, and
                                                   therefore requires imputation of data. Many authors describe
                                                   their analyses as ITT when only the first criterion has been met.
               Internal validity                   See Validity.
               Inter-rater agreement               The degree of agreement exhibited when a measurement is
                                                   repeated under identical conditions by different raters.
               Interrupted time series             A quasi-experimental study design involving multiple
                                                   observations over time that are ‘interrupted’, usually by an
                                                   intervention, to permit separation of real intervention effects
                                                   from other long-term trends.
               Intervention group                  A group of participants in a study receiving a particular
                                                   intervention.
               Inverse variance method             A widely used and easy to implement method of pooling study
                                                   results which is very flexible and can be used to combine
                                                   any type of effect measure provided that standard errors
                                                   are available. A fixed effect meta-analysis using the generic
                                                   inverse variance method calculates a weighted average of study
                                                   effect estimates by summating individual effect estimates and
                                                   weighting these by the reciprocal of their squared standard
                                                   errors.


                                                                                                                   267



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 267                                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:53
          Systematic Reviews



          Investigator triangulation        In narrative synthesis, a method of exploring the extent to
                                            which heterogeneity in study results may be attributable to the
                                            diverse approaches taken by different researchers.
          Kappa statistic                   A measure of inter-rater agreement.
          Knowledge transfer                Interactions between decision-makers and researchers through
                                            the process of planning, disseminating and applying existing or
                                            new research in decision-making.
          L’Abbé plot                       A scatter plot of the risk in the experimental group against the
                                            risk in the control group, used to explore possible heterogeneity
                                            in systematic reviews.
          Language bias                     Bias in a systematic review resulting from limiting inclusion to
                                            the exclusion of items not written in a particular language or
                                            languages.
          Language restrictions             The deliberate restriction of search results to particular
                                            languages. Results in language bias.
          Likelihood ratio (LR)             A measure of accuracy of a diagnostic test. The likelihood ratio
                                            expresses the odds that a diagnostic test will give the correct
                                            result in a patient with the target disorder.
          Linkage and exchange              Two way communications and partnerships between producers
                                            and users of research.
          Literature search                 For a systematic review this should be a systematic search
                                            for information on a given topic. Can include searches of
                                            bibliographic databases, websites, handsearching of journals
                                            and books, citation searching and reference checking.
          Mantel-Haenszel                   A method for combining studies that uses an alternative
                                            weighting scheme to the inverse variance method. It has better
                                            statistical properties than the inverse variance method when
                                            events are few.
          Markov model                      An analytical method particularly suited to modelling repeated
                                            events (e.g. headache) or the progression of a chronic disease
                                            (e.g. dementia) over time.
          Masking                           See Blinding.
          Mean difference                   A standard statistic that measures the absolute difference
                                            between the mean value of two groups, estimating the amount
                                            by which on average the intervention changes the outcome
                                            compared to the control.
          Medical Subject Heading (MeSH) MeSH is the controlled vocabulary indexing system used by the
                                         National Library of Medicine for indexing articles on Medline. It is
                                         also used in some other electronic bibliographic databases.
                                            See also Indexing term; Keyword.
          Meta-analysis                     Statistical techniques used to combine the results of two or
                                            more studies and obtain a combined estimate of effect.
          Meta-ethnography                  A set of techniques for synthesising qualitative studies. It
                                            involves the selection, comparison and analysis of studies to
                                            create new interpretations or concepts.

          268



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 268                                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:53
                                                                                                      Glossary



               Meta-regression               A statistical technique used to explore the relationship between
                                             study characteristics and study results in a systematic review.
               Meta-synthesis                See Multi-level synthesis.
               Mixed-method                  The use of qualitative and quantitative methods together.
               Moderator variable            A variable that alters the effect of an explanatory variable on a
                                             dependent variable.
               Multivariable prediction      A method of quantifying the contribution of each of a series of
               modelling                     tests to the diagnostic process by modelling the occurrence of
                                             the target condition as a function of the different test results.
               Multi-level synthesis         Where a review of qualitative studies is undertaken alongside
                                             a review of quantitative studies and the results of the two
                                             syntheses are combined. (Also referred to as meta-synthesis,
                                             sequenced, or cross-design synthesis).
               Narrative synthesis           Predominantly a textual approach that provides an analysis of
                                             the relationships within and between studies and an overall
                                             assessment of the robustness of the evidence.
               Negative predictive value     The probability of non-disease among persons with a negative
                                             test result.
               Number needed to treat/harm   An estimate of how many people need to receive an intevention
               (NNT/NNH)                     before one more person would experience a beneficial or a
                                             harmful outcome, respectively. Also referred to as number
                                             needed to treat for benefit (NNTB) and number needed to treat
                                             for harm (NNTH).
               Observational study           A study in which the investigators observe and measure but do
                                             not seek to intervene.
               Odds                          Odds describe the ratio of the probability that an event will
                                             happen to the probability that it will not happen.
               Odds ratio                    The ratio of the odds of an event in one group (e.g. the
                                             experimental (intervention) group) to the odds of an event in
                                             another (e.g. the control group).
               One-way or multi-way          In economic evaluations, one-way simple sensitivity analysis
               sensitivity analyses          varies each parameter individually in order to isolate the
                                             consequences of each parameter on the results of the study.
                                             Multi-way simple sensitivity analysis varies two or more
                                             parameters at the same time and the overall effect on the
                                             results is evaluated.
               Opportunity costs             The cost of foregone outcomes that could have been achieved
                                             through alternative investments.
               Outcome                       An aspect of a participant’s clinical or functional status that
                                             we seek to change through intervention, for example survival,
                                             tumour recurrence, conception, live birth, level of anxiety,
                                             frequency of asthma attacks. See also Primary outcome and
                                             Secondary outcome.
               Overall accuracy              The proportion of people correctly classified by the test.



                                                                                                             269



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 269                                                                                  8/1/09 09:29:53
          Systematic Reviews



          Parallel synthesis          Where a review of qualitative studies is undertaken alongside
                                      a review of quantitative studies and the formal qualitative
                                      synthesis is used to interpret the findings of the quantitative
                                      synthesis.
          Partial verification bias   A type of bias that occurs when only a selected sample of
                                      participants undergoing the index test also receive the reference
                                      standard (e.g. only those who had a positive index test result).
          Per protocol analysis       An analysis restricted to those participants in a study who
                                      followed the trial protocol closely enough to ensure that
                                      their data would be likely to show an effect of treatment if it
                                      existed. Per protocol analysis may be subject to bias because
                                      the reasons for not following the protocol may be related to
                                      treatment.
          Performance bias            Bias resulting from systematic differences in care provided to
                                      those in each intervention group (other than the intervention
                                      being evaluated) that arise because carers or participants
                                      act differently because they know which intervention is being
                                      delivered.
          Peto odds ratio             Calculates odds based on the difference between the observed
                                      number of events and the number of events that would be
                                      expected if there was no difference between experimental
                                      and control interventions. The method performs better than
                                      alternative approaches when events are very rare. It can also
                                      be used to combine time to event data by pooling log rank
                                      observed–expected (O – E) events and associated variance. It
                                      can give biased estimates when treatment effects are very large,
                                      or where there is a lack of balance in treatment allocation within
                                      the individual studies.
          Piloting                    The process of testing a procedure on a small scale before
                                      introducing it into practice, e.g. testing a data extraction form
                                      on a small sample of studies to identify any problems and
                                      inconsistencies between reviewers.
          Placebo                     An intervention without specific biological activity in the
                                      condition being treated, usually administered to compare its
                                      effects with those of an active intervention. Placebos are used
                                      because the act of intervention (rather than the intervention
                                      itself) may bring about some benefit for psychological or other
                                      reasons.
          Pooling                     See Meta-analysis.
          Positive predictive value   The probability of disease among persons with a positive test
                                      result.
          Precision                   A measure of the likelihood of random errors in the results of a
                                      study, meta-analysis or measurement.
                                      The proportion of articles identified by a search strategy that are
                                      relevant.
          Primary outcome             The main or outcome of greatest importance. See also Outcome
                                      and Secondary outcome.



          270



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 270                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:53
                                                                                                             Glossary



               Primary study                        The original study in which data were collected. The term is
                                                    sometimes used to distinguish such studies from secondary
                                                    studies that re-examine previously collected data (e.g.
                                                    systematic reviews).
               Probabilistic sensitivity analyses   In economic evaluations, probabilistic sensitivity analysis
                                                    attributes distributions of probabilities to the uncertain variables
                                                    which are incorporated into evaluation models based on decision
                                                    analytical techniques (e.g. Monte-Carlo simulation). This method
                                                    can only be used to deal with uncertainty in data input.
               Prognostic markers (biomarkers) Characteristics that help to identify or categorise people with
                                               different risks of specific future outcomes. They may be simple
                                               clinical measures such as body mass index, but are more often
                                               pathological, biochemical, molecular or genetic measures or
                                               attributes.
               Prognostic tests                     Tests conducted to assess a patient’s risk of a particular
                                                    outcome.
               Prospective study                    A study in which participants are identified and then followed
                                                    forward in time to observe whether particular outcomes do or do
                                                    not occur.
               Publication bias                     Bias arising from the fact that studies with statistically
                                                    significant results are more likely to be published than those
                                                    with inconclusive results. As a result, systematic reviews
                                                    that fail to include unpublished studies may omit relevant
                                                    research and are likely to be biased towards the positive and
                                                    overestimate the effect of an intervention.
               Pull strategy                        Facilitating demand (user)-led access to research findings.
               Push strategy                        Researcher-led distribution of new research findings.
               p-value                              The probability of obtaining the observed effect (or larger) under
                                                    the null hypothesis which for systematic reviews will commonly
                                                    be the assumption that there is no effect of the experimental
                                                    intervention. A very small p-value means that it is very unlikely
                                                    that the observed effect has arisen purely by chance and
                                                    provides evidence against the null hypothesis.
               Q*                                   The point on the ROC curve that intersects with the line of
                                                    symmetry (where sensitivity is equal to specificity). Sometimes
                                                    used as an indicator of overall test performance where there
                                                    is no clinical preference for maximising either sensitivity or
                                                    specificity.
               Qualitative comparative analysis A method for summarising and comparing data from case
                                                studies using Boolean logic.
               Qualitative meta-summary             A set of techniques for aggregating qualitative research findings.
               Qualitative meta-synthesis           A set of techniques for the interpretive integration of qualitative
                                                    findings.
               Qualitative research                 Research that adopts an interpretive, naturalistic approach and
                                                    studies things in their natural settings.



                                                                                                                   271



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 271                                                                                      8/1/09 09:29:54
          Systematic Reviews



          Quality of life                   An individual’s emotional, social, and physical well-being, and
                                            their ability to function in the ordinary tasks of living.
          Quality threshold                 In systematic reviews, restricting inclusion to studies that meet
                                            predefined criteria related to quality (validity).
          Quality-adjusted life year (QALY) In economic evaluations, a measure of health gain in which
                                            survival duration is weighted or adjusted by the patient’s
                                            (health-related) quality of life during the survival period.
          Quantitative research             Research that concentrates on describing and analysing
                                            phenomena by using numerical data and empirical models.
          Quantitative synthesis            See Meta-analysis
          Randomisation                     The process of allocating participants to one of the groups of a
                                            randomised controlled trial using (i) a means of generating a
                                            random sequence and (ii) a means of concealing the sequence,
                                            such that those entering participants to a trial are unaware of
                                            which intervention a participant will receive. This should ensure
                                            that intervention groups are balanced for both known and
                                            unknown factors.
          Randomised controlled trial       An experiment in which investigators use randomisation to
          (RCT)                             allocate participants into the groups that are being compared.
                                            Usually allocation is made at the level of individuals, but
                                            sometimes it is done at group level e.g. by schools or clinics.
          Receiver Operating                A graph used to display the trade-offs between sensitivity and
          Characteristic (ROC) curve        specificity as a result of varying the diagnostic threshold.
          Reference standard                The best currently available diagnostic test, against which the
                                            index test is compared.
          Regression analysis               A statistical modelling technique used to estimate or predict the
                                            influence of one or more independent variables on a dependent
                                            variable e.g. the influence of stage of disease and tumour size
                                            on survival.
          Regression to the mean            A statistical phenomenon by which extreme examples from any
                                            set of data are likely to be followed by examples which are less
                                            extreme; a tendency towards the average of any sample. For
                                            example, the offspring of two very tall individuals tend to be tall,
                                            but closer to the average (mean) than either of their parents.
          Relationship marketing            Developing long-term relationships with customers in order
                                            to retain them; relationship marketing techniques focus on
                                            customer retention and satisfaction.
          Relative risk                     See Risk ratio.
          Reporting bias                    A bias caused by only a subset of all relevant data being
                                            available for inclusion. For example through not all trials being
                                            published or not all outcomes being reported.
          Research synthesis                The combination and evaluation of separate studies to provide a
                                            coherent overall understanding to a research question.




          272



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 272                                                                                    8/1/09 09:29:54
                                                                                                 Glossary



               Resources                 A general term covering the staff, time, money, equipment
                                         and consumables required to, for example, implement an
                                         intervention or conduct a systematic review.
               Retrospective study       A study in which the outcomes have occurred to the
                                         participants before the study commenced.
               Risk                      The probability with which an outcome (usually adverse)
                                         will occur. For example, if out of 100 participants 20 have a
                                         myocardial infarction, the risk of infarction is 0.2.
               Risk difference           The difference in size of risk between two groups. For example,
                                         if the control group has a 30% risk of experiencing a particular
                                         event and the intervention group has a 20% risk of experiencing
                                         the event, the risk different is 10%. Also known as Absolute risk
                                         reduction.
               Risk factor               An aspect of an individual’s genetic, physiological,
                                         environmental, or socioeconomic state that affects the
                                         probability of them experiencing a particular disease or
                                         outcome. For example people with high body mass index are at
                                         increased risk of developing diabetes.
               Risk ratio                The ratio of the risk of an event in one group (e.g. the
                                         experimental (intervention) group) to the risk of an event in
                                         another (e.g. the control group).
               Sample size calculation   A calculation performed when planning a clinical study to
                                         determine the number of participants needed to ensure a given
                                         probability of detecting an effect of a given magnitude if it
                                         exists.
               Screening test            A test used to detect possible disease in people without
                                         symptoms.
               Search interface          The means by which a user can interrogate a database.
                                         Interfaces vary in complexity. Some consist merely of a text
                                         box in which a limited number of words can be entered. Others
                                         are more complex and allow the searcher to create complex
                                         searches. See also Database host.
               Search operator           A term used to combine words within a search. For example,
                                         many search interfaces allow searches for terms occurring within
                                         so many words of each other (known as adjacency searching).
                                         See also Boolean operator.
               Search strategy           The exact terms and their combinations used to search a
                                         bibliographic database.
               Secondary outcome         An outcome of lesser importance than the primary outcome. See
                                         also Outcome and Primary outcome.
               Secular trend             A relatively long-term trend in a community or country.




                                                                                                         273



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 273                                                                           8/1/09 09:29:54
          Systematic Reviews



          Selection bias                 1. Bias caused by systematic differences between comparison
                                         groups in prognosis or responsiveness to treatment.
                                         2. Bias caused by systematic differences between those who
                                         are selected for a study and those who are not. This affects
                                         the generalisability (external validity) of a study but not its
                                         (internal) validity or risk of bias.
                                         3. Bias arising from the way in which studies were selected for
                                         inclusion in a systematic review, for example, publication bias.
          Sensitivity                    In diagnostic/screening tests, a measure of a test’s ability to
                                         correctly identify people with the disease or condition of interest.
                                         In literature searching, the proportion of relevant articles that
                                         are retrieved using a specific search strategy.
          Sensitivity analysis           An analysis used to test the robustness of findings and
                                         determine how sensitive results are to the data that were
                                         included and/or the way that analyses were done.
          Sham (surgery/device)          An activity that makes the recipient believe they have received
                                         the actual intervention when they have not; e.g. sham surgery
                                         involves an anaesthetic, an incision and suturing, but without
                                         the actual surgical intervention being performed.
          Specificity                    In diagnostic/screening tests, a measure of a test’s ability
                                         to correctly identify people who do not have the disease or
                                         condition of interest.
                                         In literature searching, the proportion of non relevant articles
                                         that are not retrieved.
          Stakeholder                    In systematic reviews a person or group with an interest in or
                                         potentially affected by the results of the review.
          Standardised mean difference   The difference between two estimated means divided by an
                                         estimate of the within-group standard deviation. It is used to
                                         standardise and combine results from studies that have used
                                         different ways of measuring the same concept, e.g. mental
                                         health.
          Statistical heterogeneity      See Heterogeneity.
          Statistical power              The probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when a specific
                                         alternative hypothesis is true. In comparative studies the chance
                                         of detecting a real effect as statistically significant, given that
                                         the effect actually exists. For a given size of effect, studies with
                                         more participants have greater power. Studies with a given
                                         number of participants have more power to detect large effects
                                         than to detect small effect.
          Stochastic                     An adjective describing a random or probabilistic event or
                                         process.
          Sub-group analysis             In a clinical study or systematic review, an analysis in which
                                         the effect of the intervention is evaluated in a defined subset or
                                         subsets of participants.
          Summary data                   Data that have been aggregated for presentation or analysis, for
                                         example numbers of events in each group in a clinical trial.


          274



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 274                                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:54
                                                                                                      Glossary



               Surrogate outcome             An outcome measure that is not of direct practical importance
                                             but is believed to be an indicator or predictor of outcomes
                                             that are clinically important. These are often physiological or
                                             biochemical markers that can be obtained much more quickly
                                             compared to the clinical outcome of interest. To be valid, a
                                             surrogate outcome must have been shown to correlate with and
                                             accurately predict the outcome of interest.
               Test accuracy study           A one-sided comparison between the results of an index test
                                             and those of a reference standard. Any discrepancy is assumed
                                             to arise from error in the index test.
               Thematic analysis/synthesis   A method used in the analysis of qualitative data to
                                             systematically identify the main, recurrent and/or most
                                             important themes and/or concepts across multiple responses.
               Threshold analyses            In economic evaluations, threshold analysis identifies the critical
                                             values of the parameters above or below which the results of
                                             a study vary. This method is usually used together with simple
                                             sensitivity analysis.
               Time horizon                  The time span that reflects the period over which the main
                                             differences between interventions in health effects and use of
                                             health care resources are expected to be experienced.
               Time preferences              The predilection of an individual (or a society) for the use of
                                             resources in the present rather than in the future.
               Time-to-event data            Data that reflect not just whether an event occurs but the time
                                             at which it happens. For example time to death or survival
                                             analysis. Each data item is represented by a state variable
                                             indicating whether or not an event has occurred and an elapsed
                                             time at which the state was assessed. Individuals who have not
                                             (yet) experienced the event at a particular point in time are
                                             censored and contribute their event-free time to the analysis.
               Treatment received analysis   See Per-protocol analysis.
               Triangulation                 A research strategy in which the researcher observes the same
                                             variable or phenomenon with multiple sources, measures,
                                             and methods.
               Truncation symbol             A symbol used when searching electronic databases to retrieve
                                             all words that begin with a particular stem. For example, a
                                             search for ‘child$’ on Ovid MEDLINE will find any words that
                                             begin with ‘child’, including ‘child’, ‘children’ and ‘childhood’.
               Undiscounted                  See Discounting.
               Update searching              The re-running of a literature search to capture material that
                                             has become available since the original search was conducted.
                                             May involve re-writing search strategies to take account of
                                             changes in terminology and database indexing.
               Validity (of a measurement)   The degree to which a measurement truly measures what it
                                             purports to measure.




                                                                                                               275



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 275                                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:55
          Systematic Reviews



          Validity (of a study)      The degree to which a result of a study is likely to be true
                                     and free of bias (systematic errors), and hence the degree to
                                     which inferences drawn from the study are likely to be justified.
                                     Validity in this sense is synonymous with internal validity. See
                                     also External validity.
          Weighting                  In meta-analysis, the relative contribution of each individual
                                     study to the overall result and/or the method used to determine
                                     this. Studies are often weighted by the inverse of the variance
                                     of their measure of effect so that studies with more statistical
                                     information make a relatively greater contribution.
          Worst/best case analysis   In economic evaluations, a sensitivity analysis using extreme
                                     values for the input data to investigate the outcome of the
                                     economic evaluation in the extreme case. A pessimistic or
                                     optimistic outcome is generated. Also known as Analysis of
                                     extremes.
          2x2 contingency table      A table presenting the results of a test accuracy study, showing
                                     the number of true positive, false positive, false negative and
                                     true negative results.




          276



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 276                                                                          8/1/09 09:29:55
               Index



               A                                                         sources of 33, 44, 53, 124-128
               absolute effects 64-65, 75                      bibliographic databases 3, 16-22
               abstracts                                                 clinical tests 119-120
                          in identifying evidence 16-18, 223             public health 164-166
                          in inclusion criteria 12-13                    adverse effects 183-185
                          in report writing 80                           economic evaluations 204
                          in study selection 13, 23, 25                  qualitative evidence 223-224
               accountability 79                               binary outcomes 57-59
               adverse effects 9, 177-197, 253-254             blinding / masking
               advisory group 5-6, 9, 19, 24, 159, 161-162               in studies 35-37, 39-44, 187-188
               allocation concealment 35, 42                             in the review 21, 24, 30
               analysis (see also meta-analysis) 36-41,
                     45-76                                     C
                          clinical tests 124, 127, 136, 146    case-control study 11
                          public health 169                    checklist 3, 43, 47, 77, 125, 139, 167-168,
                          adverse effects 183, 185, 190-191          170, 186, 210-212, 214
                          economic evaluations 202, 211-213    chi-squared 66, 67
                          qualitative evidence 225-226, 229-   citation searching 16, 19, 119, 166, 251
                                230                            clinical trials (see also randomised controlled
               analysis of uncertainty 208-211                       trials) 9-11, 189, 207
               applicability, see generalisability             cluster randomised trials 11, 38, 72, 164
               archiving 80, 84                                cohort studies 7, 11, 34, 40, 118-119, 135,
               attrition bias 36                                     139-140, 182, 186, 190-191
               authorship 24-25, 79                            complex interventions 10, 42, 60, 83, 159-
               available case analysis 71-72                         161, 167-168, 180, 222
                                                               concealment of allocation 34-35, 42
               B                                               conceptual mapping 49
               Bayesian methods 74-75, 191                     conclusions, formulation of 75, 78, 80-83, 88,
               before-and-after studies 11, 39                       211-212
               best evidence synthesis 164                     conference
               bias 3-4, 6, 15, 33-44                                      abstracts 12, 13, 16, 18, 30, 84
                         assessment 3-4, 43, 125-128, 136,                 presentations 85
                               138, 186-187                                proceedings 16-18, 250
                         attrition 36                          confidence intervals 55, 62, 65-67, 72, 74-76,
                         detection 35, 39                            133-134, 209, 211
                         disease progression 127               conflict of interests 80
                         language 12, 16-17                    confounding 35, 39-40, 141, 143, 189
                         methodological 33-44, 66, 70, 124-    content analysis 51, 229
                               125, 135-137, 139               continuous
                         minimizing 16, 23, 28-29, 32, 34-                 data 31, 59, 61, 69, 72, 136-137,
                               35, 40, 53                                       142
                         performance 35                                    outcomes 59-60
                         publication 12, 16, 25, 32, 69-71,    contributorship 78-79
                               120, 136-137, 166               controlled trials 7, 17, 39, 120
                         reporting 41                          cost-benefit analysis (CBA) 202-203
                         risk of 6, 10-11, 23, 32-40, 43-45    cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) 202
                         selection / allocation 11, 23, 35,    cost-utility analysis (CUA) 202
                               38-44                           counts and rates 61-62



                                                                                                         277



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 277                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:55
          Systematic Reviews


          critical appraisal (see also quality assessment)   executive summary 80
                3, 33, 225-226                               experimental studies, see randomised
          cross-over trials 11, 37-38, 73-74                     controlled trials, cluster randomised trials
          cutpoint 136-137, 140                              external validity, see generalisability

          D                                                  F
          data collection, see data extraction               fixed effect model 14, 55, 58, 63, 142
          databases, bibliographic 3, 16-22                  forest plots 52, 62-63, 66-67, 130, 133
                    clinical tests 119-120                   funnel plots 52, 69-71, 120
                    public health 164-166
                    adverse effects 183-185                  G
                    economic evaluations 204                 generalisability 10, 33-34, 42, 44, 53, 80, 82
                    qualitative evidence 223-224                       clinical tests 139
          data extraction 13, 28-32                                    public health 170
                    clinical tests 121-124, 137                        adverse effects 180, 182, 189
                    public health 166-167                              economic evaluations 211-213
                    adverse effects 186                      generic inverse variance method 55-56, 58,
                    economic evaluations 204-205                 60, 62, 73, 142
          data synthesis 14, 45-76                           graphical presentations 52, 62, 129, 133-134,
                    clinical tests 129-133, 142-143              169
                    public health 169                        grey literature 16, 18-19, 89, 166
                    adverse effects 190                      H
                    economic evaluations 212-213             handsearching 17-18, 22-23, 166, 224, 240,
                    qualitative evidence 228-229                  250-252
          descriptive synthesis 45                           harvest plot 169
          design effect (DE) 73                              hazard ratio (HR) 60-62, 64, 142
          detection bias 35, 39                              health promotion 72, 160, 163-164, 167, 231
          diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) 116, 120, 130-         heterogeneity 14, 51-52, 54, 66-71
               132                                                    clinical tests 120, 129-130, 132, 139
          dichotomous                                                 public health 164, 168-169
                    data 31, 57-69                                    economic evaluations 213-214
                    outcomes 57-59                                    qualitative evidence 221
          discussion, formulation of 81                      hierarchy of evidence 10, 34, 40, 163, 206
          dissemination 14, 85-90                            homogeneity 180, 213
                    via websites 19                          hypothesis-generating 20, 40, 69, 182-183
                    framework 87                             hypothesis-testing 54, 182
          dose-response 142
          double-blinding 36, 42                             I
          drop-outs 37, 186                                  I2 statistic 67
                                                             idea webbing 49, 52
          E                                                  identifying research evidence (see also
          economic evaluations 201-214                            search) 13, 16-22
          effect                                                        clinical tests 119-120, 137
                    estimates 9, 12, 32, 42, 54-59, 62,                 public health 164-166
                          66-70, 73, 75, 189-190                        adverse effects 183-185
                    measures 14, 54, 59, 187                            economic evaluations 204
                    modifiers 68-69                                     qualitative evidence 223-224
          electronic databases 16-19                         implications 81-83
                    clinical tests 120                       implementation
                    public health 166                                   of intervention 35-36, 41-42, 53,
                    adverse effects 184                                       public health 162-164, 167-170
                    qualitative evidence 223                                  qualitative evidence 221-222,
          equity 68, 162-163                                                       231-232
          excluded studies 7, 24-26, 36                                 of dissemination 85-86, 88



          278



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 278                                                                                 8/1/09 09:29:55
                                                                                                         Index


               imputation 36, 71-72, 74                          N
               inclusion / exclusion criteria 6-10, 13, 19,      narrative synthesis 14, 44-53, 76, 129, 190,
                    23-27, 30                                        214, 229
                         clinical tests 113, 119, 135, 138-139   negative likelihood ratio 116, 130-131
                         public health 160-164                   negative predictive value 116
                         adverse effects 180                     number needed to treat (NNT) 64-65
                         economic evaluations 203-204
                         qualitative evidence 223-224            O
               index test 109, 113-115, 119-124, 126-129,        observational studies 11, 40-41, 43, 59, 182,
                    133-134                                           190-191
               indirect comparison 68, 74                        obtaining documents 21
               individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis       odds ratio 56-59, 62, 64
                    61, 68, 137, 142, 239-240                    ordinal outcomes 61
               intention to treat (ITT) analysis 36-37, 71-72    outcomes 7-11, 13-14, 19, 31, 33-44, 75-76,
               internal validity 34, 42, 44, 139-140, 213             162-163, 181-182, 202-205, 221
               interrupted time series 11, 39, 43, 164                    adverse effects 181-182
               interventions                                              binary 57-59
                         complex 10, 42, 60, 83, 159-161,                 continuous 59-60
                               167-168, 180, 222                          dichotomous / binary 57-59
                         public health 3, 41-42, 157, 159-                measures 118, 142
                               165, 168-170, 239                          ordinal 61
                                                                          primary 9, 115
               K                                                          public health 162-163
               Kaplan Meier analysis 60                                   secondary (other) 9, 183
               knowledge transfer/translation 85                          surrogate 9, 162-163
                                                                          time to event 60-61
               L
               language bias 12, 16-17                           P
               literature searching (see also search) 13,        paired analysis 73-74
                     16-22                                       participants (see also population) 8-9, 11, 30-
                         clinical tests 119-120, 137                   31, 33-40, 42, 71-73
                         public health 164-166                   peer review 80
                         adverse effects 183-185                 performance bias 35
                         economic evaluations 204                per protocol / treatment received / on
                         qualitative evidence 223-224                  treatment analysis 71, 189
                                                                 Peto odds ratio 58-59
               M                                                 PICOCS 160
               managing references 21                            PICOS 4, 7-9, 15, 19, 160, 170
               Mantel-Haenszel odds ratio 58                     piloting 24, 28-29, 32, 125
               masking / blinding                                population (see also participants) 8, 113, 135,
                         in studies 35-37, 39-44, 187-188              160, 180
                         in the review 21, 24, 30, 66            positive likelihood ratio 116
               mean difference 59-60                             positive predictive value 115
               meta-analysis (see also analysis) 14, 25, 33,     primary outcome 9, 115, 163
                   41, 45, 54-63, 71-74, 76-77                   process evaluation 168
                         clinical tests 130-137, 142, 146-147    prognostic
                         adverse effects 182, 190-191                       studies 135, 138-139
                         economic evaluations 206, 210,                     tests 135
                               213-214                           project websites 19, 89
               meta-ethnography 228, 230                         prospective meta-analysis 240
               meta-regression 69, 191                           protocol (see also review protocol)
               mixed treatment comparisons 74                               amendments 15
               moderator variables 52                                       writing 6-8, 10, 13-15, 132-133,
               multiple regression analysis 143                                  161



                                                                                                           279



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 279                                                                              8/1/09 09:29:55
          Systematic Reviews


          public health intervention 3, 41-42, 157, 159-               data extraction 28
               165, 168-170, 239                                       economic evaluations 214
          publication bias 12, 16, 25, 32, 69-71, 120,                 protocol amendments 15
               136-137, 143, 146-147, 166                              public health 170
          publication, multiple / duplicate 25                         qualitative evidence 230-232
                                                                       quality assessment 44
          Q                                                            quality of reporting 41
          Q-statistic 66, 67                                           quantitative results 62-65, 75
          qualitative                                                  search strategies 21-22
                    analysis 229-231                                   study selection 25-26
                    studies / research 9, 164, 167, 169,    results, describing 75
                          221-232                           reviews of reviews 240
          quality assessment 3, 4, 6, 10, 14, 33-44         review protocol 6-15, 23-24, 28, 45, 54, 68,
                    clinical tests 124-128, 138-141              84
                    public health 167-168                              clinical tests 121, 132-133, 135-136
                    adverse effects 186-189                            public health 160-161
                    economic evaluations 206-212                       adverse effects 181
                    qualitative evidence 225-227                       economic evaluations 203
          quality of reporting 25, 33, 41, 51-52, 59, 61,   risk of bias 6, 10-11, 23, 32-40, 43-45
               68, 77                                       risk ratios 58-59, 62, 64
                    clinical tests 120-122, 125, 129,       robustness of synthesis 48-49, 53-54, 65-66,
                          135-140                                76
                    public health 161, 167-168
                    adverse effects 184, 186-189            S
                    economic evaluations 207-209,           scoping review 240
                          212-213                           screening
                    qualitative evidence 227                           papers for inclusion 10, 13, 20, 84
          quality of the intervention 33, 41, 167                      interventions 39, 112-113, 118,
          quantitative synthesis 54-76                                       120, 132
          quasi-experimental studies 9, 11, 39              search
                                                                       filters 204, 224, 243
          R                                                            literature 20, 23
          recommendations 81-83                                        strategies 16, 19, 22, 78, 137, 179,
          random-effects model 55-56, 63, 75                                 204, 224, 251-252
          randomisation 11, 34-35                                      terms 13, 19, 165, 243-247, 251,
          randomised controlled trials (RCTs) 11, 34-39,                     253-254
               41, 45, 59, 68, 75                                      web / internet resources 16, 18, 20,
                     clinical tests 111-112, 142-143                         165-166, 251
                     public health 163, 168                 secondary (other) outcome 9, 183
                     adverse effects 182, 186, 188-191      sensitivity 115-119, 122-123, 127, 129-134
                     economic evaluations 204, 206                     analysis 10, 12, 24, 65-66, 143,
                     qualitative evidence 223                                146, 190, 209, 211, 227
          rapid evidence assessments 241                    single-gate studies 118-119, 132
          rate ratios 62                                    social interventions 160
          receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve     software 21, 29, 133
               117-118, 129-134                             specificity 115-119, 129-134
          reference management 20-21, 25                    standardised mean difference 59-60
          reference standard 114                            statistical analysis 14, 33, 36, 38, 41, 45,
          registers of trials 18, 71, 223                        54-75
          regression analysis 69, 143                                  clinical tests 130-131, 136-137,
          relative and absolute effects 64-65, 75                            142-143
          relative risk 57-58, 64                                      public health 169
          report writing 77-83                                         adverse effects 189
                     adverse effects 191                               economic evaluations 208-209



          280



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 280                                                                               8/1/09 09:29:56
                                                                                                       Index


               statistical heterogeneity (see also             U
                    heterogeneity) 66-68, 71, 109, 129         unpublished papers 12, 16-19, 32, 69, 84,
               study selection 1, 6, 13, 23-27                     120, 136-137, 166, 184-185
                          public health 167                    updating literature searches 1, 20
                          adverse effects 179
               subgroup analysis 8, 14, 31, 44, 50-52, 67-69   V
                          clinical tests 132, 137, 139         validity
                          public health 169                               assessment (see also bias, risk of)
                          adverse effects 190-191                              43, 53, 114, 139-140, 206,
               surrogate outcomes 9, 162-163                                   212-213, 225, 232
               surveys 164, 229                                           external, see generalisability
               synthesis 14, 45-76                                        internal 34, 42, 44, 139-140, 213
                          clinical tests 129-133, 142-143      variability (see also heterogeneity) 54-55, 60,
                          public health 169                         67, 73, 130
                          adverse effects 190                  vote-counting 49, 51
                          economic evaluations 212-213         W
                          qualitative evidence 228-229         web searching, see search
               T                                               website, dedicated review 19, 24, 77, 89
               test accuracy 111-115, 118-121, 124-129,
                    131-132, 134
               text mining 20
               thematic analysis 51, 228
               threshold
                         analysis 209
                         diagnostic 114-115, 117-118, 121-
                              122, 127
                         effect 129-131
               triangulation 52
               two-gate studies 118-119, 132
               time-to-event analysis 60-61, 142




                                                                                                          281



CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 281                                                                             8/1/09 09:29:56
CRD Systematic Reviews.indd 282   8/1/09 09:29:56
