

    
    RDF Schema 1.1

    

    

  

  

    

    

  
RDF Schema 1.1

  
W3C Recommendation 25 February 2014

  

    

        Document Status Update, 1 December 2023

    
The Latest published version link was fixed: it is intended to point to the latest version of the document for this version of RDF (i.e. RDF 1.1).

  

      This version:
      http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-rdf-schema-20140225/
      Latest published version:
      http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-schema/

    

    

    

      Previous version:
      http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/PER-rdf-schema-20140109/

    
    Editors:
    Dan Brickley, Google

R.V. Guha, Google

    

      

          Previous Editors:

             

                  

                      Brian McBride

                  

             

        

    

  

      Please check the errata for any errors or issues
      reported since publication.

  

    

      
        This document is also available in this non-normative format:

      diff w.r.t. 2004 Recommendation

  

    

      The English version of this specification is the only normative version. Non-normative
      translations may also be available.

  

    

        Copyright ©
        2004-2014

        W3C®
        (MIT,
        ERCIM,
        Keio, Beihang), 

        All Rights Reserved.

        W3C liability,
        trademark and

          document use

        rules apply.

    

  

      

Abstract

RDF
          Schema provides a data-modelling vocabulary for RDF data. RDF Schema
          is an extension of the basic RDF vocabulary. 

Status of This Document

    

        

          This section describes the status of this document at the time of its publication.
          Other documents may supersede this document. A list of current W3C publications and the
          latest revision of this technical report can be found in the W3C technical reports index at
          http://www.w3.org/TR/.

        

This document is an edited version of the 2004 RDF
        Schema Recommendation. The purpose of this revision is to make this
        document available as part of the RDF 1.1 document set. Changes are
        limited to errata, revised references, terminology updates, and adaptations to
        the introduction. The title of the document was changed from "RDF
        Vocabulary Description Language 1.0: RDF Schema" to "RDF Schema 1.1".
        The technical content of the document is unchanged. Details of the changes
        are listed in the Changes section.
      Since the edits to this document do not constitute a technical
      change the Director decided no new implementation report was
      required.  

      

          This document was published by the RDF Working Group as a Recommendation.

          
            If you wish to make comments regarding this document, please send them to 
            public-rdf-comments@w3.org 
            (subscribe,
            archives).

          

          
            All comments are welcome.

        

        

          

            This document has been reviewed by W3C Members, by software developers, and by other W3C
            groups and interested parties, and is endorsed by the Director as a W3C Recommendation.
            It is a stable document and may be used as reference material or cited from another
            document. W3C's role in making the Recommendation is to draw attention to the
            specification and to promote its widespread deployment. This enhances the functionality
            and interoperability of the Web.

        

        

          
            This document was produced by a group operating under the 
            5 February 2004 W3C Patent
            Policy.

          

            
              W3C maintains a public list of any patent
              disclosures 

            made in connection with the deliverables of the group; that page also includes
            instructions for disclosing a patent. An individual who has actual knowledge of a patent
            which the individual believes contains
            Essential
            Claim(s) must disclose the information in accordance with
            section
            6 of the W3C Patent Policy.

          

        

    

Table of Contents
1. Introduction
2. Classes
2.1 rdfs:Resource
2.2 rdfs:Class
2.3 rdfs:Literal
2.4 rdfs:Datatype
2.5 rdf:langString
2.6 rdf:HTML
2.7 rdf:XMLLiteral
2.8 rdf:Property
3. Properties
3.1 rdfs:range
3.2 rdfs:domain
3.3 rdf:type
3.4 rdfs:subClassOf
3.5 rdfs:subPropertyOf
3.6 rdfs:label
3.7 rdfs:comment
4. Using the Domain and Range vocabulary
5. Other vocabulary
5.1 Container Classes and Properties
5.1.1 rdfs:Container
5.1.2 rdf:Bag
5.1.3 rdf:Seq
5.1.4 rdf:Alt
5.1.5 rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty
5.1.6 rdfs:member
5.2 RDF Collections
5.2.1 rdf:List
5.2.2 rdf:first
5.2.3 rdf:rest
5.2.4 rdf:nil
5.3 Reification Vocabulary
5.3.1 rdf:Statement
5.3.2 rdf:subject
5.3.3 rdf:predicate
5.3.4 rdf:object
5.4 Utility Properties
5.4.1 rdfs:seeAlso
5.4.2 rdfs:isDefinedBy
5.4.3 rdf:value
6. RDF Schema summary
6.1 RDF classes
6.2 RDF properties
A. Acknowledgments
B. Change since 2004 Recommendation
C. References
C.1 Normative references
C.2 Informative references

    

      

1. Introduction

      
RDF Schema provides a data-modelling vocabulary for RDF data.
        It is complemented by several companion documents which
        describe the basic concepts and abstract syntax of RDF
        [RDF11-CONCEPTS], the formal semantics of RDF [RDF11-MT], and
        various concrete syntaxes for RDF, such as Turtle [TURTLE],
        TriG, [TRIG], and JSON-LD [JSON-LD]. The RDF Primer
        [RDF11-PRIMER] provides an informal introduction and
        examples of the use of the concepts specified in this document.

This document is intended to provide a clear specification of RDF
        Schema to those who find the formal semantics
        specification [RDF11-MT]
        daunting. Thus, this document duplicates material also specified in the
        RDF
        Semantics specification. Where there is disagreement between this
        document
        and the RDF Semantics specification, the RDF Semantics specification
        should
        be taken to be correct.

      

        RDF Schema is a semantic
          extension of RDF. It provides mechanisms for describing groups of
        related resources and the relationships between these resources. RDF
        Schema is written in RDF
        using the terms described in this document. These resources are used to
        determine characteristics of other resources, such as the domains
        and ranges of properties.

      
The RDF Schema class and property system is similar to the type
        systems of object-oriented programming languages such as Java. RDF
        Schema differs from many such systems in that instead of defining a
        class in
        terms of the properties its instances may have, RDF Schema
        describes properties in terms of the classes of
        resource to which they apply. This is the role of the domain
        and range
        mechanisms described in this specification. For example, we could
        define the eg:author property to have a domain of eg:Document
        and a range of
        eg:Person, whereas a classical object oriented system might
        typically define a class eg:Book with an attribute called
        eg:author of type eg:Person. Using the RDF
        approach, it is easy for others to subsequently define additional
        properties with a domain of eg:Document or a range of
        eg:Person. This can be done without the need to re-define
        the original description of
        these classes. One benefit of the RDF property-centric approach is that
        it
        allows anyone to extend the description of existing resources, one of
        the
        architectural principles of the Web [BERNERS-LEE98].

This specification does not attempt to enumerate all the possible forms
        of
        representing the meaning of RDF
        classes and properties. Instead, the RDF Schema strategy is
        to acknowledge that there are many techniques through which the meaning
        of
        classes and properties can be described. Richer vocabulary or 'ontology'
        languages such as OWL [OWL2-OVERVIEW], inference rule
        languages and other formalisms (for example temporal logics) will each
        contribute to our ability to capture meaningful generalizations about
        data in
        the Web.

      
The language defined in this specification consists of a collection of
        RDF resources that can be used to describe other RDF resources in
        application-specific RDF vocabularies. The core vocabulary is defined in
        a namespace informally called rdfs here. That namespace is
        identified by the IRI

        http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#

      and is conventionally associated with the prefix rdfs:. This
      specification also uses the prefix
      rdf: to refer to the RDF namespace

      
        http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#

      
For convenience and readability, this specification uses an abbreviated
        form to represent IRIs. A name of the form prefix:suffix should be
        interpreted as a IRI consisting of the IRI associated
        with the prefix concatenated with the suffix.

    

      

2. Classes

Resources may be divided into groups called classes. The members of a
        class are known as instances of the class. Classes are
        themselves
        resources. They are often identified by IRIs
        and
        may be described using RDF properties. The rdf:type
        property may be used to state that a
        resource is an instance of a class.

RDF distinguishes between a class and the set of its instances.
        Associated
        with each class is a set, called the class extension of the class, which
        is
        the set of the instances of the class. Two classes may have the same set
        of
        instances but be different classes. For example, the tax office may
        define
        the class of people living at the same address as the editor of this
        document. The Post Office may define the class of people whose address
        has
        the same zip code as the address of the author. It is possible for these
        classes to have exactly the same instances, yet to have different
        properties.
        Only one of the classes has the property that it was defined by the tax
        office, and only the other has the property that it was defined by the
        Post
        Office.

A class may be a member of its own class extension and may be an
        instance of itself. 

The group of resources that are RDF Schema classes is itself a class
        called rdfs:Class.

        If a class C is a subclass of a class C', then all instances
        of C will
        also be instances of C'. The rdfs:subClassOf
        property may be used to state that one class is a subclass of another.
        The term super-class is used as the inverse of subclass. If a class C'
        is a super-class of a class C, then all instances of C are also
        instances of C'.

      
The RDF Concepts and Abstract Syntax [RDF11-CONCEPTS] specification
        defines the RDF concept of an RDF
          datatype. All datatypes are classes. The instances of a class that
        is a
        datatype are the members of the value space of the datatype.

        
2.1 rdfs:Resource

All things described by RDF are called resources, and are
          instances of the class rdfs:Resource. This is the class
          of
          everything. All other classes are subclasses
          of
          this class. rdfs:Resource is an instance of rdfs:Class.

      

        
2.2 rdfs:Class

This is the class of resources that are RDF classes.
          rdfs:Class is an instance of rdfs:Class.

      

        
2.3 rdfs:Literal

The class rdfs:Literal is the class of literal
          values such as strings and integers. Property values such as textual
          strings are examples of RDF literals.

rdfs:Literal is an instance of rdfs:Class.
          rdfs:Literal is a subclass of rdfs:Resource.

      

        
2.4 rdfs:Datatype

rdfs:Datatype is the class of datatypes. All instances
          of
          rdfs:Datatype correspond to the RDF
model
            of a datatype described in the RDF Concepts specification
          [RDF11-CONCEPTS].
          rdfs:Datatype is
          both an instance of and a subclass of rdfs:Class. Each instance of rdfs:Datatype
          is a subclass of rdfs:Literal.

      

        
2.5 rdf:langString

The class rdf:langString is the class of language-tagged
            string values. rdf:langString is an instance of
          rdfs:Datatype and a subclass
          of rdfs:Literal.

      

        
2.6 rdf:HTML
This section is non-normative.

The class rdf:HTML is the class of HTML
literal
            values. rdf:HTML is an instance of
          rdfs:Datatype and a subclass
          of rdfs:Literal.

      

        
2.7 rdf:XMLLiteral
This section is non-normative.

The class rdf:XMLLiteral is the class of XML
literal
            values. rdf:XMLLiteral is an instance of
          rdfs:Datatype and a subclass
          of rdfs:Literal.

      

        
2.8 rdf:Property

rdf:Property is the class of RDF properties.
          rdf:Property is an instance of rdfs:Class.

    

      

3. Properties

The RDF Concepts and Abstract Syntax specification [RDF11-CONCEPTS]
        describes the concept of an RDF property as a relation between subject
        resources and object resources.

        This specification defines the concept of subproperty. The rdfs:subPropertyOf
        property may be used to state that one property is a subproperty of
        another.
        If a property P is a subproperty of property P', then all pairs of
        resources which are related by P are also related by P'. The term
        super-property is often
        used as the inverse of subproperty. If a property P' is a super-property
        of a property P, then all pairs of resources which are related by P are
        also related by P'. This specification does not define a top
        property that is the super-property of all properties.

      

Note

        The basic facilities provided by rdfs:domain
        and rdfs:range do not provide any
        direct way to indicate property restrictions that are local to a class.
        Although it is possible to combine use rdfs:domain
        and rdfs:range with sub-property
        hierarchies, direct support for such declarations are provided by richer
        Web Ontology languages such as OWL [OWL2-OVERVIEW].

      

        
3.1 rdfs:range

rdfs:range is an instance of rdf:Property
          that is used to state that
          the values of a property are instances of one or more classes.

The triple
         P rdfs:range C

        
states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property,
          that C is an instance of the class rdfs:Class
          and that the resources denoted by the objects of triples whose
          predicate is P are instances of the class C.

Where P has more than one rdfs:range property, then the resources
          denoted by the objects of triples with predicate P are instances of
          all the classes stated by the rdfs:range properties.

The rdfs:range property can be applied to itself. The
          rdfs:range of rdfs:range is the class rdfs:Class.
          This states that any resource
          that is the value of an rdfs:range property is an
          instance of rdfs:Class.

The rdfs:range property is applied to properties. This
          can be represented in RDF using the rdfs:domain
          property. The rdfs:domain of rdfs:range
          is
          the class rdf:Property. This
          states
          that any resource with an rdfs:range property is an
          instance of
          rdf:Property.

      

        
3.2 rdfs:domain

rdfs:domain is an instance of rdf:Property
          that is used to state that
          any resource that has a given property is an instance of one or more
          classes.

A triple of the form:
         P rdfs:domain C

        
states that P is an instance of the class rdf:Property,
          that C is a instance of the class rdfs:Class
          and that the resources denoted by the subjects of triples whose
          predicate is P are instances of the class C.

Where a property P has more than one rdfs:domain property, then the
          resources denoted by subjects of triples with predicate P are
          instances of all the classes stated by the rdfs:domain
          properties.

The rdfs:domain property may be applied to itself. The
          rdfs:domain of rdfs:domain is the class rdf:Property.
          This states that any
          resource with an rdfs:domain property is an instance of
          rdf:Property.

The rdfs:range of
          rdfs:domain is the class rdfs:Class.
          This states that any resource that is the value of an rdfs:domain
          property is an
          instance of rdfs:Class.

      

        
3.3 rdf:type

rdf:type is an instance of rdf:Property
          that is used to
          state that a resource is an instance of a class.

A triple of the form:
         R rdf:type C

        
states that C is an instance of rdfs:Class
          and R is an instance of C.

The rdfs:domain of
          rdf:type is rdfs:Resource.
          The rdfs:range of rdf:type is rdfs:Class.

      

        
3.4 rdfs:subClassOf

The property rdfs:subClassOf is an instance of rdf:Property that is used to state
          that all the instances of one class are instances of another.

A triple of the form:
         C1 rdfs:subClassOf C2

        
states that C1 is an instance of rdfs:Class,
          C2 is an instance of rdfs:Class
          and C1 is a subclass of C2. The rdfs:subClassOf
          property is transitive.

The rdfs:domain of
          rdfs:subClassOf is rdfs:Class.
          The rdfs:range of rdfs:subClassOf
          is rdfs:Class.

      

        
3.5 rdfs:subPropertyOf

The property rdfs:subPropertyOf is an instance of rdf:Property that is used to state
          that all resources related by one property are also related by
          another.

A triple of the form:
         P1 rdfs:subPropertyOf P2

        
states that P1 is an instance of rdf:Property,
          P2 is an instance of rdf:Property
          and P1 is a subproperty of P2. The
          rdfs:subPropertyOf property is transitive.

The rdfs:domain of
          rdfs:subPropertyOf is rdf:Property.
          The rdfs:range of
          rdfs:subPropertyOf is rdf:Property.

      

        
3.6 rdfs:label

rdfs:label is an instance of rdf:Property
          that may be used to provide a human-readable version of a resource's
          name.

A triple of the form:
         R rdfs:label L

        
states that L is a human readable label for R.

The rdfs:domain of
          rdfs:label is rdfs:Resource.
          The rdfs:range of rdfs:label is
          rdfs:Literal.

Multilingual labels are supported using the language
            tagging facility of RDF literals.

      

        
3.7 rdfs:comment

rdfs:comment is an instance of rdf:Property
          that may be used to provide a human-readable description of a
          resource.

A triple of the form:
         R rdfs:comment L

        
states that L is a human readable description of R.

The rdfs:domain of
          rdfs:comment is rdfs:Resource.
          The rdfs:range of rdfs:comment
          is rdfs:Literal.

A textual comment helps clarify the meaning of RDF classes and
          properties.
          Such in-line documentation complements the use of both formal
          techniques
          (Ontology and rule languages) and informal (prose documentation,
          examples,
          test cases). A variety of documentation forms can be combined to
          indicate the
          intended meaning of the classes and properties described in an RDF
          vocabulary. Since RDF vocabularies are expressed as RDF graphs,
          vocabularies
          defined in other namespaces may be used to provide richer
          documentation.

Multilingual documentation is supported through use of the language
            tagging facility of RDF literals.

    

      

4. Using the Domain and Range vocabulary
This section is non-normative.

This specification introduces an RDF vocabulary for describing the
        meaningful use of properties and classes in RDF data. For example, an
        RDF
        vocabulary might describe limitations on the types of values that are
        appropriate for some property, or on the classes to which it makes sense
        to
        ascribe such properties.

RDF Schema provides a mechanism for describing this information, but
        does not say whether or how an application should use it. For example,
        while an RDF vocabulary can assert that an author property
        is used to
        indicate resources that are instances of the class Person,
        it
        does not say whether or how an application should act in processing that
        range information. Different applications will use this information in
        different ways. For example, data checking tools might use this to help
        discover errors in some data set, an interactive editor might suggest
        appropriate values, and a reasoning application might use it to infer
        additional information from instance data.

RDF vocabularies can describe relationships between vocabulary items
        from
        multiple independently developed vocabularies. Since IRIs are used
        to identify classes and properties on the Web, it is possible to create
        new
        properties that have a domain or range whose
        value
        is a class defined in another namespace.

    

      

5. Other vocabulary

Additional classes and properties, including constructs for
        representing
        containers and RDF statements, and for deploying RDF vocabulary
        descriptions
        in the World Wide Web, are defined in this section.

        
5.1 Container Classes and Properties
This section is non-normative.

RDF containers are resources that are used to represent collections.
          The same resource may appear in a container more than
          once. Unlike containment in the physical world, a container may be
          contained in itself.

Three different kinds of container are defined. Whilst the formal
          semantics [RDF11-MT] of all three classes of container are
          identical,
          different classes may be used to indicate informally further
          information. An rdf:Bag is used to indicate that the container is
          intended to be unordered. An rdf:Seq is used to indicate that the
          order indicated by the numerical order of the container
            membership properties
          of the container is intended to be significant. An rdf:Alt container
          is used
          to indicate that typical processing of the container will be to select
          one of
          the members.

Just as a hen house may have the property that it is made of wood,
          that
          does not mean that all the hens it contains are made of wood, a
          property of a
          container is not necessarily a property of all of its members.

RDF containers are defined by the following classes and properties.

          5.1.1 rdfs:Container

The rdfs:Container class is a super-class of the RDF
            Container classes, i.e. rdf:Bag,
            rdf:Seq, rdf:Alt.

        

          5.1.2 rdf:Bag

The rdf:Bag class is the class of RDF 'Bag'
            containers. It is
            a subclass of rdfs:Container.
            Whilst formally it is no
            different from an rdf:Seq or an
            rdf:Alt, the rdf:Bag
            class is used
            conventionally to indicate to a human reader that the container is
            intended
            to be unordered.

        

          5.1.3 rdf:Seq

The rdf:Seq class is the class of RDF 'Sequence'
            containers.
            It is a subclass of rdfs:Container.
            Whilst formally it is no
            different from an rdf:Bag or an
            rdf:Alt, the rdf:Seq
            class is used
            conventionally to indicate to a human reader that the numerical
            ordering of
            the container membership
              properties of the container is intended to be significant.

        

          5.1.4 rdf:Alt

The rdf:Alt class is the class of RDF 'Alternative'
            containers. It is a subclass of rdfs:Container. Whilst formally
            it is no
            different from an rdf:Seq or an
            rdf:Bag, the rdf:Alt
            class is used
            conventionally to indicate to a human reader that typical processing
            will be
            to select one of the members of the container. The first member of
            the
            container, i.e. the value of the rdf:_1
            property, is the
            default choice.

        

          5.1.5 rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty

The rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty class has as
            instances
            the properties rdf:_1, rdf:_2, rdf:_3 ... that are
            used to state
            that a resource is a member of a container.
            rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty is a subclass
            of rdf:Property. Each
            instance of
            rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty is an rdfs:subPropertyOf
            the rdfs:member property.

Given a container C, a triple of the form:
           C rdf:_nnn O

          
where nnn is the decimal representation of an integer
            greater than 0 with
            no leading zeros, states that O is a member of the container C.

Container membership properties may be applied to resources other
            than containers.

        

          5.1.6 rdfs:member

rdfs:member is an instance of rdf:Property
            that is a super-property of all
            the container membership properties i.e. each container membership
            property
            has an rdfs:subPropertyOf
            relationship to the property rdfs:member.

The rdfs:domain of
            rdfs:member is rdfs:Resource.
            The rdfs:range of rdfs:member
            is
            rdfs:Resource.

      

        
5.2 RDF Collections
This section is non-normative.

RDF containers are open in the sense that the core RDF specifications
          define no mechanism to state that there are no more members. The RDF
          Collection vocabulary of classes and properties can describe a closed
          collection, i.e. one that can have no more members.

A collection is represented as a list of items, a representation that
          will be familiar to those with experience of Lisp and similar
          programming languages. There is a shorthand
            notation in the Turtle syntax specification for representing
          collections.

Note

          RDFS does not require that there be only one first element of a
          list-like structure, or even that a list-like structure have a first
          element.

        

          5.2.1 rdf:List

rdf:List is an instance of rdfs:Class
            that can be used to build descriptions of lists and other list-like
            structures.

        

          5.2.2 rdf:first

rdf:first is an instance of rdf:Property
            that can be used to build descriptions of lists and other list-like
            structures.

          
A triple of the form:
           L rdf:first O

          
states that there is a first-element relationship between L and O.

            The rdfs:domain of rdf:first
            is rdf:List. The rdfs:range
            of rdf:first is rdfs:Resource.

        

          5.2.3 rdf:rest

rdf:rest is an instance of rdf:Property
            that can be used to build descriptions of lists and other list-like
            structures.

          
A triple of the form:
           L rdf:rest O

          
states that there is a rest-of-list relationship between L and O.

            The rdfs:domain of rdf:rest
            is rdf:List. The rdfs:range
            of rdf:rest is rdf:List.

        

          5.2.4 rdf:nil

The resource rdf:nil is an instance of rdf:List
            that can be used to represent an empty list or other list-like
            structure.

A triple of the form:
           L rdf:rest rdf:nil

          
states that L is an instance of rdf:List
            that has one item; that item can be indicated using the rdf:first
            property.

      

      
5.3 Reification Vocabulary
This section is non-normative.

        

          5.3.1 rdf:Statement

rdf:Statement is an instance of rdfs:Class.
            It is intended to represent the class of RDF statements. An RDF
            statement is the statement made by a token of an RDF triple. The
            subject of an RDF statement is the instance of rdfs:Resource
            identified by the subject of the triple. The predicate of an RDF
            statement is the instance of rdf:Property
            identified by the predicate of the triple. The object of an RDF
            statement is the instance of rdfs:Resource
            identified by the object of the triple.
            rdf:Statement is in the domain of the properties rdf:predicate, rdf:subject
            and rdf:object. Different
            individual rdf:Statement instances may have the same
            values for their rdf:predicate,
            rdf:subject
            and rdf:object properties.

        

          5.3.2 rdf:subject

rdf:subject is an instance of rdf:Property
            that is used to state the
            subject of a statement.

A triple of the form:
           S rdf:subject R

          
states that S is an instance of rdf:Statement
            and that the subject of S is
            R.

The rdfs:domain
            of rdf:subject is
            rdf:Statement. The rdfs:range
            of rdf:subject is
            rdfs:Resource.

        

          5.3.3 rdf:predicate

rdf:predicate is an instance of rdf:Property
            that is used to state the
            predicate of a statement.

A triple of the form:
           S rdf:predicate P

          
states that S is an instance of rdf:Statement,
            that P is an instance of
            rdf:Property and that the
            predicate
            of S is P.

The rdfs:domain of
            rdf:predicate is rdf:Statement
            and the rdfs:range is rdfs:Resource.

        

          5.3.4 rdf:object

rdf:object is an instance of rdf:Property
            that is used to state the
            object of a statement.

A triple of the form:
           S rdf:object O

          
states that S is an instance of rdf:Statement
            and that the object of S is
            O.

The rdfs:domain of
            rdf:object is rdf:Statement.
            The rdfs:range of rdf:object
            is
            rdfs:Resource.

      

        
5.4 Utility Properties

The following utility classes and properties are defined in the RDF
          core
          namespaces.

          5.4.1 rdfs:seeAlso

rdfs:seeAlso is an instance of rdf:Property
            that is used to indicate a
            resource that might provide additional information about the subject
            resource.

A triple of the form:
           S rdfs:seeAlso O

          
states that the resource O may provide additional information about
            S. It
            may be possible to retrieve representations of O from the Web, but
            this is
            not required. When such representations may be retrieved, no
            constraints are
            placed on the format of those representations.

The rdfs:domain of
            rdfs:seeAlso is rdfs:Resource.
            The rdfs:range of rdfs:seeAlso
            is
            rdfs:Resource.

        

          5.4.2 rdfs:isDefinedBy

rdfs:isDefinedBy is an instance of rdf:Property
            that is used to indicate a
            resource defining the subject resource. This property may be used to
            indicate
            an RDF vocabulary in which a resource is described.

A triple of the form:
           S rdfs:isDefinedBy O

          
states that the resource O defines S. It may be possible to
            retrieve
            representations of O from the Web, but this is not required. When
            such
            representations may be retrieved, no constraints are placed on the
            format of
            those representations. rdfs:isDefinedBy is a subproperty
            of rdfs:seeAlso.

The rdfs:domain of
            rdfs:isDefinedBy is rdfs:Resource.
            The rdfs:range of rdfs:isDefinedBy
            is
            rdfs:Resource.

        

          5.4.3 rdf:value

rdf:value is an instance of rdf:Property
            that may be used in
            describing structured values.

rdf:value has no meaning on its own. It is provided as a piece of
            vocabulary that may be used in idioms such as illustrated
            in example below:

Example 1<http://www.example.com/2002/04/products#item10245>
    <http://www.example.org/terms/weight> [
       rdf:value 2.4 ;
       <http://www.example.org/terms/units> <http://www.example.org/units/kilograms>
       ] .

Despite
            the lack of formal specification of the meaning of this property,
            there is
            value in defining it to encourage the use of a common idiom in
            examples of
            this kind.

The rdfs:domain of
            rdf:value is rdfs:Resource.
            The rdfs:range of rdf:value
            is rdfs:Resource.

      

    

      

6. RDF Schema summary
This section is non-normative.

The tables in this section provide an overview of the RDF Schema vocabulary.

      

        
6.1 RDF classes

          

              Class name
              comment

            

              rdfs:Resource
              The class resource, everything.

            

              rdfs:Literal
              The class of literal values, e.g. textual strings and
                integers.

            

              rdf:langString
              The class of language-tagged string literal values.

            

              rdf:HTML
              The class of HTML literal values.

            

              rdf:XMLLiteral
              The class of XML literal values.

            

              rdfs:Class
              The class of classes.

            

              rdf:Property
              The class of RDF properties.

            

              rdfs:Datatype
              The class of RDF datatypes.

            

              rdf:Statement
              The class of RDF statements.

            

              rdf:Bag
              The class of unordered containers.

            

              rdf:Seq
              The class of ordered containers.

            

              rdf:Alt
              The class of containers of alternatives.

            

              rdfs:Container
              The class of RDF containers.

            

              rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty
              The class of container membership properties, rdf:_1, rdf:_2,
                ..., all of which are sub-properties of 'member'.

            

              rdf:List
              The class of RDF Lists.

          

      

        
6.2 RDF properties

          

              Property name
              comment
              domain
              range

              rdf:type
              The subject is an instance of a class.
              rdfs:Resource
              rdfs:Class

            

              rdfs:subClassOf
              The subject is a subclass of a class.
              rdfs:Class
              rdfs:Class

            

              rdfs:subPropertyOf
              The subject is a subproperty of a property.
              rdf:Property
              rdf:Property

            

              rdfs:domain
              A domain of the subject property.
              rdf:Property
              rdfs:Class

            

              rdfs:range
              A range of the subject property.
              rdf:Property
              rdfs:Class

            

              rdfs:label
              A human-readable name for the subject.
              rdfs:Resource
              rdfs:Literal

            

              rdfs:comment
              A description of the subject resource.
              rdfs:Resource
              rdfs:Literal

            

              rdfs:member
              A member of the subject resource.
              rdfs:Resource
              rdfs:Resource

            

              rdf:first
              The first item in the subject RDF list.
              rdf:List
              rdfs:Resource

            

              rdf:rest
              The rest of the subject RDF list after the first item.
              rdf:List
              rdf:List

            

              rdfs:seeAlso
              Further information about the subject resource.
              rdfs:Resource
              rdfs:Resource

            

              rdfs:isDefinedBy
              The definition of the subject resource.
              rdfs:Resource
              rdfs:Resource

            

              rdf:value
              Idiomatic property used for structured values.
              rdfs:Resource
              rdfs:Resource

            

              rdf:subject
              The subject of the subject RDF statement.
              rdf:Statement
              rdfs:Resource

            

              rdf:predicate
              The predicate of the subject RDF statement.
              rdf:Statement
              rdfs:Resource

            

              rdf:object
              The object of the subject RDF statement.
              rdf:Statement
              rdfs:Resource

          

        
In addition to these classes and properties, RDF also uses properties
          called rdf:_1, rdf:_2, rdf:_3...
          etc.,
          each of which is both a sub-property of rdfs:member and
          an
          instance of the class rdfs:ContainerMembershipProperty.
          There is
          also an instance of rdf:List called rdf:nil
          that is
          an empty rdf:List.

    

      

A. Acknowledgments
This section is non-normative.

The RDF Schema design was originally produced by the RDF Schema Working
        Group (1997-2000). The current specification is largely an editorial
        clarification of that design, and has benefited greatly from the hard
        work of
        the RDF Core Working Group
        members, and
        from
        implementation feedback from many members of the RDF
          Interest Group. In
        2013-2014 Guus Schreiber edited this document on behalf of the RDF
          Working Group
        to bring it in line with the RDF 1.1 specifications. 

David Singer of IBM was the chair of the original RDF Schema group
        throughout most of the development of this specification; we thank David
        for
        his efforts and thank IBM for supporting him and us in this endeavor.
        Particular thanks are also due to Andrew Layman for his editorial work
        on
        early versions of this specification.

The original RDF Schema Working Group membership included:

Nick Arnett (Verity), Dan Brickley (ILRT / University of Bristol),
        Walter
        Chang (Adobe), Sailesh Chutani (Oracle), Ron Daniel (DATAFUSION),
        Charles
        Frankston (Microsoft), Joe Lapp (webMethods Inc.), Patrick Gannon
        (CommerceNet), RV Guha (Epinions, previously of Netscape
        Communications), Tom
        Hill (Apple Computer), Renato Iannella (DSTC), Sandeep Jain (Oracle),
        Kevin
        Jones, (InterMind), Emiko Kezuka (Digital Vision Laboratories), Ora
        Lassila
        (Nokia Research Center), Andrew Layman (Microsoft), John McCarthy
        (Lawrence
        Berkeley National Laboratory), Michael Mealling (Network Solutions),
        Norbert
        Mikula (DataChannel), Eric Miller (OCLC), Frank Olken (Lawrence Berkeley
        National Laboratory), Sri Raghavan (Digital/Compaq), Lisa Rein
        (webMethods
        Inc.), Tsuyoshi Sakata (Digital Vision Laboratories), Leon Shklar
        (Pencom Web
        Works), David Singer (IBM), Wei (William) Song (SISU), Neel Sundaresan
        (IBM),
        Ralph Swick (W3C), Naohiko Uramoto (IBM), Charles Wicksteed (Reuters
        Ltd.),
        Misha Wolf (Reuters Ltd.)

    

        

B. Change since 2004 Recommendation
This section is non-normative.

Changes for RDF 1.1 Recommendation

	    
No changes.

        
Changes for RDF 1.1 Proposed Edited Recommendation

          
Conversion to ReSpec, including formatting of examples and notes.

References to RDF 1.0 documents where appropriate
            replaced by references to RDF 1.1 documents.

Replaced the term "URI Reference" with the term "IRI". 

Removed discussion about distinction between plain and typed
            literals, as this distinction is absent in RDF 1.1 and has no
            technical bearing on RDF Schema.

Removed the introductory paragraph of Sec. "Reification
              Vocabulary", as this discussion is not related to the
            technical content and is irrelevant and confusing now. 

Update of affiliation of the editors. 

Added RDF WG to the Acknowledgements section.

Renamed the document from "RDF Vocabulary Description Language
            1.0: RDF Schema" to "RDF Schema 1.1", as the term Vocabulary
            Description Language has led to confusion.

Three paragraphs of the Introduction were left out. These
            paragraphs described the things that RDF Schema does not do and are
            now much less relevant than in 2004. 

Added the datatypes rdf:langString and rdf:HTML.

          
Removed Appendix "RDF Schema in RDF/XML". It was informative, but
            now out of date, in terms of content and in terms of
        syntax.

Marked rdf:HTML and rdf:XMLLiteral
        as non-normative.

Removed references to 2004 Primer from Secs. 5.1, 5.2
        and 5.4.3. In the latter case the example referred to was
        moved into this document for readability purposes.  

    

  

C. References

C.1 Normative references[JSON-LD]Manu Sporny, Gregg Kellogg, Markus Lanthaler, Editors. JSON-LD 1.0. 16 January 2014. W3C Recommendation. URL: http://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld/
[RDF11-CONCEPTS]Richard Cyganiak, David Wood, Markus Lanthaler. RDF 1.1 Concepts and Abstract Syntax. W3C Recommendation, 25 February 2014. URL: http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-rdf11-concepts-20140225/. The latest edition is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-concepts/
[RDF11-MT]Patrick J. Hayes, Peter F. Patel-Schneider. RDF 1.1 Semantics. W3C Recommendation, 25 February 2014. URL: http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-rdf11-mt-20140225/. The latest edition is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-mt/
[TRIG]Gavin Carothers, Andy Seaborne. TriG: RDF Dataset Language. W3C Recommendation, 25 February 2014. URL: http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-trig-20140225/. The latest edition is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/trig/
[TURTLE]Eric Prud'hommeaux, Gavin Carothers. RDF 1.1 Turtle: Terse RDF Triple Language. W3C Recommendation, 25 February 2014. URL: http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/REC-turtle-20140225/. The latest edition is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/

C.2 Informative references[BERNERS-LEE98]Tim Berners-Lee. What the Semantic Web can represent. 1998. URI: http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/RDFnot.html.
[OWL2-OVERVIEW]W3C OWL Working Group. OWL 2 Web Ontology Language Document Overview (Second Edition). 11 December 2012. W3C Recommendation. URL: http://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-overview/
[RDF11-PRIMER]Guus Schreiber, Yves Raimond. RDF 1.1 Primer. W3C Working Group Note, 25 February 2014. The latest version is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-primer/.

